----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

                                                                        Tell us about your PDF experience. 

FSLogix documentation 

Virtual desktops and published remote applications are a critical, and growing part for many 
businesses. These environments thrive when able to provide a consistent and efficient user 
experience. FSLogix enhances the user experience, and simplifies the management of these 
environments. 

   About FSLogix 

    ｅ OVERVIEW 

   What is FSLogix 

    FSLogix release notes 

   Common FSLogix terminology 

    More information 

    ｉ  REFERENCE 

   Configuration settings reference 

   Services, drivers, and components 

   Get started with FSLogix 

    ｇ TUTORIAL 

   Configure profile containers 

   Configure ODFC containers 

   Configure Cloud Cache containers 

   Create and implement Application Rule Sets 

   Create and implement redirections.xml 

    ｂ GET STARTED 

    FSLogix prerequisites 

    FSLogix applications 

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

Types of containers 

Container storage options 

Configuration examples 

ｃ  HOW-TO GUIDE 

Install FSLogix 

Use Group Policy templates 

Configure storage Permissions 

High availability and disaster recovery 

Ｙ ARCHITECTURE 

What is Cloud Cache? 

Container high availability 

Business continuity and disaster recovery 

Troubleshooting and Support 

ｄ TRAINING 

FSLogix product support 

Issues with old, temporary, or local profiles 

Issues with long or failed sign-ins 

Issues with container attach or detach 

Issues with AppX, MSIX or Microsoft store applications 

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

What is FSLogix? 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

FSLogix enhances and enables a consistent experience for Windows user profiles in virtual 

desktop computing environments. FSLogix isn't limited to virtual desktop environments, but 

could be used on physical desktops where a more portable user experience is desired. 

Here are a few things that FSLogix provides: 

      Roam user data between remote computing session hosts. 

      Minimize sign in times for virtual desktop environments. 

      Optimize file I/O between host/client and remote profile store. 

      Provide a local profile experience, eliminating the need for roaming profiles. 

      Simplify the management of applications and 'Gold Images'. 

FSLogix provides customers with both ease of configuration and various levels of flexibility. 

This can lead to limitless configuration options of which, can have unintended consequences. 

FSLogix can be a complex solution with various dependencies on other systems and 

infrastructure. We recommend that you engage with resources who have the following skill set 

or have these skills inherently: 

      Identity and Authentication 

      Storage design and architecture 

      Active Directory, Azure Active Directory, or Azure Active Directory Domain Services 

      Windows Deployment (Server or Desktop) 

      Application Compatibility 

   ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

   FSLogix provides unique integration and advantages when used in an Azure Virtual 

   Desktop environment. 

Key capabilities 

       Redirect user profiles to a storage provider. Mounting and using the profile from a 

      storage provider eliminates delays often associated with solutions that copy profiles to 

      and from a network location. 

                                                                             1 
       Redirect only the portion of the profile that contains Office  data by using an ODFC 

      container. The ODFC container allows an organization already using an alternate profile 

                2 
      solution  to enable Microsoft 365 applications in multi-session desktop environments. 

      Applications use the user's profile as if it were on the local disk. FSLogix uses a filter driver 

      to virtualize and redirect the profile at the file system level. Applications are unaware the 

       profile is on the network. Obscuring the redirection is important because many 

      applications can't work properly with a profile stored remotely. 

       Profile containers used with Cloud Cache to provide high availability and disaster recovery 

       profile solutions. 

      Application Rule Sets manage access to an application, font, printer, or other items. 

      Access can be controlled using users, groups, IP Addresses, and other criteria. Application 

       Rule Sets significantly decrease the complexity of managing large numbers of gold 

       images. 

1 Office data includes, but is not limited to Microsoft 365 applications, OneDrive, Teams, SharePoint, and OneNote. 

2 Under most circumstances, ODFC containers are not used with Profile containers simultaneously. 

Next steps 

  FSLogix Prerequisites 

  FSLogix Release Notes 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 5-----------------------

FSLogix Release Notes 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

These releases follow a pattern of internal testing (self-host), early access, and general 

availability (GA). You can opt into early access by joining the Microsoft Management Customer 

Connection Program      . When necessary, a critical update might be released quickly following a 

GA release. 

  ） Important 

   Customers are required to install and use the latest version    . For more information, see 

   FSLogix product support. 

FSLogix 26.01 CU1 (critical update) 

      Version: 3.26.126.19110 

      Date published: February 10, 2026 

Summary 

This is a critical update to the 26.01 release. 

What's new 

      This version doesn't have any new features or functionality. 

Fixed issues 

----------------------- Page 6-----------------------

      Fixed an issue that prevented ODFC VHD(x) containers from creating or mounting when 

      CleanupInvalidSessions was enabled. 

   ７ Note 

   This only affects configurations using both Profiles and ODFC. 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 26.01 CU1 (3.26.126.19110) 

FSLogix 26.01 

      Version: 3.26.102.18413 

      Date published: January 13, 2026 

Summary 

This release provides a set of updates and fixes. 

What's new 

      This version doesn't have any new features or functionality. 

Fixed issues 

      Updated the default identity exclusions as defined in Device identity and desktop 

      virtualization | Microsoft Learn. 

      Fixed the registry exclusions. 

      Fixed logging when a user is excluded using local exclude groups. 

      Fixed FRX.exe copy-profile utility. 

      Updated default redirections in Outlook for Windows. 

      Fixed an issue where a disk may not detach correctly after a compact operation. 

      Fixed a potential logon hang when a profile does not unload successfully during a 

      timeout operation (< 30 sec). 

      Fixed extended status of SupportedSize for VHD compact operations. 

      Fixed an issue where package registration could fail due to missing authentication 

      context. 

----------------------- Page 7-----------------------

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 26.01 (3.26.102.18413) 

FSLogix 25.09 

      Version: 3.25.822.19044 

      Date published: September 9, 2025 

Summary 

This release provides a set of updates and fixes. 

What's new 

      Added new exclusions to our  profile deletion exclusions. 

Fixed issues 

      Fixed an issue where a redirection removed prior to sign out resulted in a bugcheck E3 or 

      24 (Stop Code: 0xE3, 0x24). 

      Removed a driver feature flag that indicated support for  QUERY_OPEN when it didn't exist in 

      the driver. 

      Fixed an issue where a single item in the redirected Recycle Bin would display the 

      incorrect name when emptied. 

      Fixed an issue when creating an application rule for specify value, the wrong UI was 

      displayed. 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 25.09 (3.25.822.19044) 

FSLogix 25.06 

      Version: 3.25.626.21064 

      Date published: July 8, 2025 

----------------------- Page 8-----------------------

Summary 

This release provides compatibility and support for  Microsoft Outlook for Windows (MSIX 

version). 

What's new 

      Support, data roaming, and application registration for Microsoft Outlook for Windows 

      (MSIX version). 

         Enabled special handling for the registration of the MSIX package family in both 

         Profiles and ODFC. 

         Supports redirections of the application data for ODFC containers. 

         Allows coexistence between classic and Outlook for Windows under a single 

         configuration setting. 

Fixed issues 

      Fixed an issue where FSLogix attempted to look up a user token before it was initialized 

      during profile load. 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 25.06 (3.25.626.21064) 

FSLogix 25.04 

      Version: 3.25.401.15305 

      Date published: April 8, 2025 

Summary 

This release provides updates to address five known issues introduced in 25.02. 

Fixed issues 

      FSLogix containers don't detach and prevent users from signing into a new session. 

      FSLogix Rules don't apply to users as expected. 

      FRXShell rule fails clean-up and prevents all user sign ins. 

----------------------- Page 9-----------------------

      After signing in, user receives an error message that the Recycle Bin is corrupted. 

      Searchindexer.exe (frx_usermode_x64.dll) crashing in Windows Server 2016. 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 25.04 (3.25.401.15305) 

FSLogix 25.02 

      Version: 3.25.202.4223 

      Date published: February 11, 2025 

Summary 

This release is a change in versioning and release structure. This update to v3 introduces a 

versioning that is date / time formatted and based on when the product was created. While not 

feature packed, we made significant updates and improvements to enhance overall stability. 

Additionally, this release retired various features from the product and no longer supports 32- 

bit operating systems. 

What's new 

      Major version change (2 → 3) and updated how FSLogix release names and build versions 

      are defined. In future releases, major releases will increment the major version from 3 to 4 

      to 5, etc. 

         Example: 

            Release name: 25.02 

            Build version: 3.25.202.4223 (3.YY.MMDD.HHMMS, Single digit months don't have a 

            leading 0) 

      Cloud Cache no longer assumes some failure states are a bad configuration and now 

      allows customers to test and validate their configurations for redundancy through any 

      method they choose. 

      Microsoft.FSLogix PowerShell module used for Cloud Cache investigation and 

      troubleshooting. 

      When  RedirXMLSourceFolder is removed or 'not configured' in Group Policy, the 

      redirections.xml file is now removed from within the user's profile container at the next 

      sign-in. 

----------------------- Page 10-----------------------

Fixed issues 

      LocalCache and TempState folders for MSIX packages are now properly cleaned up during 

      sign out. 

      Fixed an issue related to symlink reparse points affecting App-V and other components 

      that have similar calls. 

      VHD disk compaction for differencing disks now works the same as disks without a 

      differencing disk. 

        ７ Note 

        Compaction results are based on each disk and what space is able to be reclaimed 

        during the optimization. 

      ADMX templates were updated to allow settings that are enabled by default to be 

      disabled. 

      Sign-in and sign out optimizations to ensure MSIX settings are properly handled before 

      and after the Windows shell events. 

        ７ Note 

        This optimization is most notable when reviewing text logs. 

        Output 

        ===== Begin Session: Post Profiles Logon 
        ===== End Session: Post Profiles Logon 
        ===== Begin Session: Pre Profiles Logoff 
        ===== End Session: Pre Profiles Logoff 

Feature retirement 

      Support for Windows Server 2012 R2 

      Support for 32-bit operating systems 

      Cloud Cache CcdMaxCacheSizeInMBs (limited cache) 

      Profiles Configuration Tool 

      App Container Rules 

      Internet Explorer browser plug-in 

      Application Rule Set license reporting 

----------------------- Page 11-----------------------

      Java Rule Editor and Java Rules 

      FRXTray utility 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

FSLogix 2210 hotfix 4 

      Version: 2.9.8884.27471 

      Date published: May 14, 2024 

Summary 

This is a hotfix release to address known issues and other identified bugs. In addition, this 

release brings back the capability to roam a user's Group Policy state which provides 

asynchronous policy processing. 

   ） Important 

   This version provides a comprehensive set of changes to support new Microsoft Teams in 

   virtual desktop environments. 

What's new 

2210 hotfix 4 includes the following updates: 

      Group Policy processing can now occur asynchronously for users during sign-in. 

      MSIX folders under  %LocalAppData%\Packages\<package-name>\ are automatically created 

      when an ODFC container is created (new or reset container). 

      Teams data located in  %LocalAppData%\Publishers\8wekyb3d8bbwe\TeamsSharedConfig will 

      roam with the ODFC container. 

Fixed issues 

2210 hotfix 4 includes the following fixed issues: 

----------------------- Page 12-----------------------

      Windows Server 2019 would sometimes fail to query the provisioned AppX applications 

      for the user during sign out. 

      MSIX folders that shouldn't be backed up would be removed during sign out instead of 

      only removing the contents of those folders. 

      New Microsoft Teams crashes or fails to start in Windows Server 2019. 

      New Microsoft Teams would display an error during launch with  The parameter is 

      incorrect . 

      New Microsoft Teams would display an error during launch with  Invalid function . 

      New Microsoft Teams wouldn't on-demand register during sign-in when using the ODFC 

      container. 

      New Microsoft Teams wouldn't on-demand register during profile creation and wouldn't 

      register during future sign-ins, despite being installed. 

      User-based Group Policy settings would persist in the user's profile after the policy setting 

      was removed or set to disabled. 

File information 

Download the following package and follow the installation instructions 

      Download FSLogix 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) 

Next steps 

  Download and install FSLogix 

  Configuration examples 

  Configure profile containers 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 13-----------------------

FSLogix Terminology 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage                      . 

Terms and acronyms used in FSLogix may not always be easy to understand or decipher. The 

terminology page helps clarify terms and / or acronyms used within our documentation and 

product. 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Term            Definition                                                                       Other Names 

  Back port       The process of taking new product changes or bug fixes and 
                  integrating into previous versions. FSLogix doesn't back port any 
                  changes or fixes to previous versions. All changes are only available in 
                  future releases. 

  BCDR            Business continuity and disaster recovery are concepts that aim to               DR 
                  ensure a particular service or resource is continually available during 
                  disaster. 

  BSOD            Refers to a Windows fatal error or system crash. The term stands for             Crash, System 
                  "blue screen of death" due to the error screen during these fatal errors         Crash 
                  was blue and required a full system restart. 

  Base disk       Refers to the backing VHD used when  ProfileType = 3 or 

                   VHDAccessMode = 1, 2, or 3 . Differencing disks are merged into base 

                  disks. 

  CCD             Refers to the FSLogix Cloud Cache feature.                                       Cloud Cache 

  Container       The virtual hard disk (VHD / VHDX) file, which contains all the data for         Disk 
                  the given type of container. 

----------------------- Page 14-----------------------

Term             Definition                                                                        Other Names 

Differencing     Refers to the intermediate VHD used to track changes to the base disk. 
disk             Differencing disks are merged into base disks. 

HA               High availability is a concept that aims to ensure a particular service or 
                 resource is available during an unplanned outage. 

Healthy          Indicates a fully working state of a remote storage provider when using 
                 Cloud Cache. 

ODFC             A type of container that holds only data and settings for Microsoft 365           Office 
                 products. ODFC data includes, but isn't limited to Outlook, Teams, 
                 OneDrive (Personal or Business), and Sharepoint. 

Profile          A type of container that holds the data and settings for users signed 
                 into a Windows based system. 

Redirection      Redirection is a technical concept where a known location (file system            Redirect 
                 or registry) can be pointed to another. The redirection, either to a local 
                 disk (mounted or fixed) or network location, will operate / act as if the 
                 location exists on the local drive. A known location 
                 like,  C:\Users\%username% , and all its contents are pointed to the 

                 mounted container. Any data in the container is saved for use on other 
                 sign-ins. 

SMB              Stands for "Server Message Block." SMB is a network protocol used by              CIFS 
                 Windows-based computers that allows systems within the same 
                 network to share files. An SMB file share is written using  \\{server- 

                 name}.contoso.com\{share-name} for a traditional Windows server or  \\ 

                 {storage-account-name}.file.core.windows.net\{share-name} for Azure 

                 File shares. 

Storage          The service or resource providing container storage. Includes legacy              VHDLocations, 
provider         physical storage and Azure based storage. Storage providers are limited           CCDLocations 
                 by the types of storage FSLogix supports. 

UNC              Stands for "Universal Naming Convention". UNC is a way to identify a 
                 share location on a server without knowing the exact storage device it 
                 is on. Windows uses the following UNC format:  \\{server- 

                 name}.contoso.com\{share-name} for a traditional Windows server or  \\ 

                 {storage-account-name}.file.core.windows.net\{share-name} for Azure 

                 File shares. 

Unhealthy        Indicates a non-working (connectivity, permissions, etc.) state of a 
                 remote storage provider when using Cloud Cache. 

VHD(x)           A virtual hard disk that provides a 'disk-in-a-file' abstraction. 

----------------------- Page 15-----------------------

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 16-----------------------

FSLogix FAQ 

The FSLogix FAQ provides information related to the installation, configuration, operation and 

supportability of FSLogix in virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI). 

Installation 

Is FSLogix integrated into all Windows operating 
systems? 

FSLogix isn't a Windows feature and must be installed separately. FSLogix can be found in the 

Azure Marketplace for Windows 10 and Windows 11 multi-session images. While we aim for 

this version of FSLogix to be 'up-to-date', customers should verify which version is installed. If 

necessary, upgrade to the latest version. 

Does FSLogix update automatically or use Windows 
Update? 

No, FSLogix must be updated manually or through your existing image creation process. 

Subscribe and follow the FSLogix Blog  to keep updated on when new versions are released. 

Does FSLogix provide incremental updates? 

No, FSLogix releases are full versions of the product. 

Do I need to uninstall FSLogix before installing a 
new version? 

Depends. If you need to go to a previous version, you should uninstall FSLogix, reboot, then 

install the previous version. Updated versions can be installed on top of the older version and 

requires a reboot. 

What versions of FSLogix are supported? 

Microsoft only supports the latest version of FSLogix. See our product support page. 

Containers 

----------------------- Page 17-----------------------

Does the size of the FSLogix container affect the 
sign in performance? 

No, container size doesn't affect sign in times or performance. Other factors are much more 

important when troubleshooting long sign in times. 

What is the behavior when an FSLogix container 
reaches or exceeds the `SizeInMBs` value? 

Users may start to experience strange behavior with applications or accessing files due to the 

lack of storage in the container. Increasing the  SizeInMBs setting will automatically increase the 

size of the container at the next sign in when using dynamic disks. To prevent these situations, 

you should plan for at least 30% free space. Monitor the event logs or log files for warning 

events at less than 2 GB and less than 500-MB free space. 

Do I need to use the ODFC container when using 
Microsoft 365 applications? 

No, The ODFC container is primarily used in VDI solutions where another roaming profile 

product is used. Always use a single profile container unless your business or workload 

requirements need the separation. Check out the Types of Containers article for more 

information. 

How do I configure OneDrive with FSLogix? 

FSLogix handles all the complexity (filesystem redirection) behind the scenes. When a user 

signs in to OneDrive and must choose a location, they should select the default location 

( C:\Users\%username%\). FSLogix uses this location and all the data is saved to the user's 

container. Review the following OneDrive documentation: 

      Use the sync app on virtual desktops 

      Silently configure user accounts 

      Redirect and move Windows known folders to OneDrive 

      Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings 

Do OneDrive policies monitor the FSLogix VHD size 
or the local disk size? 

----------------------- Page 18-----------------------

When using FSLogix for profiles or profile and ODFC containers are in use, the OneDrive disk 

space policies check the FSLogix VHD rather than the operating system disk. 

Figure 1: OneDrive disk space warning policy object 

----------------------- Page 19-----------------------

Figure 2: ODFC VHD Properties 

----------------------- Page 20-----------------------

Figure 3: OneDrive Warning - Low Disk Space 

Can I migrate user profile data from other roaming 
profile solutions to an FSLogix container? 

FSLogix doesn't provide a direct migration path from other roaming profile solutions. 

Implementing OneDrive with known folder move or similar cloud or network storage solutions 

provides users with a location to save their data outside of their profile. For smaller use cases, 

our frx command-line utility can help copy local profiles into a new VHD(x). 

Can I convert from a single profile container to a 
profile and ODFC container configuration? 

----------------------- Page 21-----------------------

Yes. When the ODFC container is created, FSLogix copies the data from the profile container 

though the original data isn't removed. The original data must be removed manually. 

Example ODFC log file entries: 

  Console 

  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirroring  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive to \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb- 
  0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CopyFolderToVolume: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  OneDrive\UserMeta Volume: \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Creating mount point:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff} -> \\? 
  \Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success creating mount point.  
  Mirroring files... 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory:  
  C:\Windows\system32\robocopy.exe  
  "C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive"  
  "C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta"  
  /MT /R:5 /W:1 /XJD /COPYALL /IT /B /DCOPY:DAT /MIR 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CreateProcess successful 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Enabling cloud files pass- 
  through 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Waiting for process to end 
  [18:10:00.460][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Robocopy exit code: 1  
  (Success) 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success mirroring files 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Volume mount point removed 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirror complete 

Microsoft Entra ID 

Can a user change their password while connected 
to a VDI session with an FSLogix container attached 
for their profile? 

Users may change their passwords under the following scenarios: 

      The virtual machine is either joined to Active Directory or Entra hybrid joined AND it has 

      line of sight to a domain controller. 

      The user is an Entra hybrid identity (synced from an Active Directory). 

----------------------- Page 22-----------------------

      The user changes their password during sign in to Windows (Administrator checked the 

      box to change password at next logon). 

      The user changes their password within their VDI session using Ctrl+Alt+Del or 

      Ctrl+Alt+End. 

Users signed into Entra joined virtual machines or using Entra only identities are not supported 

for password changes with an active VDI session using an FSLogix container. Users must be 

fully signed out of any sessions with an FSLogix container, then they can change their 

password. Once changed they can sign into their VDI session. 

Can I use FSLogix containers with Microsoft Entra ID 
and cloud-only identities? 

Yes...BUT, it requires understanding of the risks. There are two (2) ways we've identified how to 

configure FSLogix for Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities. Check out the  FSLogix 

profile containers for Microsoft Entra ID cloud only identities  blog article. 

Can I use FSLogix application rule sets with 
 Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities? 

 No. Application rule sets only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine has line of sight to a Domain Controller. 

Can I use object specific settings with Microsoft 
 Entra ID cloud-only identities or Microsoft Entra 
joined vir tual machines and hybrid identities? 

 No. Object specific settings only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine is hybrid Entra joined. 

Can I use the same Profile container when switching 
from hybrid Entra joined to Entra joined Session 
 Hosts or virtual machines using hybrid identities? 

 No. The user's SID changes to their 'cloud-based' SID when signing into a computer that is 

 Entra joined which prevents the profile from loading correctly. 

 Redirects or redirections.xml 

----------------------- Page 23-----------------------

What are the recommended values for the 
redirections.xml file? 

FSLogix doesn't provide recommended values for the redirections.xml file. The redirections.xml 

file is a powerful tool to help you manage the user's profile AND may cause problems if not 

used correctly. We rely on application owners to document what data can or can't be excluded 

from user's profile container. 

For example: 

      Classic Teams: Classic Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure 

      New Teams: Upgrade to new Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) 

    Tip 

   Don't exclude user profile data for applications unless the application owner has 

   documented the data can be excluded. 

I don't see the redirections.xml events in the log file. 

If you don't see any entries in the log file as described in the tutorial, it's most common to be 

one of three things: 

      The  RedirXMLSourceFolder contains the full filename path. 

      The user doesn't have read access to the file share location. 

      The path to the file share can't be found (network, DNS or bad name). 

The include statement isn't working as expected. 

The include statement is used to keep sub directories of excluded folders in the user's profile. 

The include statement only works if the data or folder exists in the profile  BEFORE creating the 

include statement. It's common for applications to create these folders at their initial launch. 

This can cause problems if the user gets a new profile and the data doesn't exist until the 

application is launched. 

    Tip 

   Don't include this type of data in your XML file. 

----------------------- Page 24-----------------------

What is the limit of exclude and include statements 
for the redirections.xml file? 

There isn't a technical limitation. Less is more. Adding redirections for small folders doesn't 

benefit the user's experience. Having numerous exclude or include statements causes a 

performance issue because each file system request must be checked against the list of 

redirections. These file system operations add up and decrease the virtual machine's overall 

performance. 

After I implemented redirections.xml, the user's 
container stayed the same size or grew larger. 

Implementing the redirections.xml file to exclude content for existing FSLogix profiles doesn't 

remove or delete the exclusion from the user's profile. You need to delete the profile container 

or create a script to run after sign in or part of the sign in process to delete the content from 

the container. 

VHD disk compaction 

Why is VHD disk compaction not running or not 
recovering the space I expect? 

   1. Check the profile or ODFC log files for errors or warnings. 

   2. Review the concept article for VHD disk compaction. 

How do I adjust the disk compaction threshold? 

The threshold isn't configurable. 

Can the message during sign out be customized? 

No, the message during sign out is a built-in Windows process that can't be changed. 

What happens if a user disconnects during the sign 
out and tries to reconnect? 

The disconnected session continues the sign out process, including compaction. If the 

compaction process isn't complete by the time the user tries to reconnect, the disk is in use. 

----------------------- Page 25-----------------------

The user experience depends on your other configuration settings. Under default conditions, 

the user is signed in with a temporary profile. 

How does disk compaction work with Cloud Cache? 

During the sign out phase, all content in the disk is brought down from one of the providers to 

the local VHD(x) disk. Then the disk is evaluated for compaction. If or when compaction 

completes, the local VHD(x) is uploaded to the Cloud Cache provider(s). This process causes 

the sign out process to take longer in this type of configuration, which could lead to a poor 

user experience. 

Cloud Cache 

Do I need to use Cloud Cache for high availability? 

No. It can be an acceptable solution to use standard containers (VHDLocations) with a highly 

available storage provider. Azure Files provides high availability through zone-redundant 

storage (ZRS) and is a recommended storage provider. 

Why does it take so long for users to sign out? 

Cloud Cache performs lazy asynchronous updates to the remote storage providers during a 

user's session. These operations aren't real-time and are subject to the latency and throughput 

of the network and storage providers. At sign out, Cloud Cache attempts to merge all the data 

from the local cache to ALL storage providers listed. Storage providers which are under 

performing or have high latency will take longer to merge. FSLogix holds the user's sign out 

until the operation is complete. 

Recommendations 

      Review your network topology and latency to all configured storage providers 

      Upgrade your storage provider to a higher performing tier 

      Disable VHDCompactDisk 

      Don't use  ProfileType = 3 or  VHDAccessMode = 1, 2, or 3 

----------------------- Page 26-----------------------

About FSLogix applications 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage            . 

FSLogix is a product that is made up of two (2) distinct applications. The core application 

known as FSLogix Apps is the primary component that enables user profile virtualization in 

virtual desktop environments. FSLogix also provides a supplemental application for application 

rule set editing. 

FSLogix Apps (Core Product) 

FSLogix Apps installs two (2) Windows services and three mini-filter drivers that enable all 

FSLogix components. The install guide provides a step-by-step process for both manual and 

unattended installations. Once installed, review the FSLogix configuration guides for profile and 

ODFC containers. 

FSLogix Apps services 

      Attaching / detaching Profile or Office containers 

      File system redirects between the user's profile and the appropriate container 

      Processing rule files 

      Processing redirections.xml 

      Reads registry configuration data 

      Interacts with Windows Credential Manager 

      Interacts with SMB Storage locations 

FSLogix Cloud Caching service 

      Dependent on FSLogix Apps Services 

----------------------- Page 27-----------------------

      Interacts with SMB and Azure Storage locations 

      Responsible for Cache and Proxy file locations 

Next steps 

  FSLogix Apps RuleEditor and Rule Sets 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 28-----------------------

FSLogix Apps RuleEditor and Rule Sets 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

The FSLogix Apps RuleEditor is a standalone application that creates FSLogix Rule Set files. 

FSLogix Apps Services ( frxsvc) processes Rule Set files and can perform various actions that 

manage the end-user experience in virtual desktop environments. Rule Set files are a collection 

of rules that show, hide, redirect, or customize specific aspects of the registry, file system, 

applications or printers. A single Rule Set file can support any number of rules of varying types. 

In most cases, keeping the Rule Set files contained to a specific type of customization makes 

them easier to maintain and troubleshoot. 

Types of rules 

You can create four types of rules: 

      Hiding rule 

      Redirection rule 

      Specify value rule 

   Ｕ Caution 

   Hiding and redirection rules manipulate the file system at very fundamental level. These 

   types of rules can be very powerful, and creating or changing them can have unexpected 

   consequences. Always test and validate Rule Sets before deploying them in a production 

   environment. 

Hiding rule 

----------------------- Page 29-----------------------

A hiding rule hides specific items from a user or group of users. Hiding rules can apply to files, 

folders, registry keys, registry values, printers, or fonts. 

Redirection rule 

Redirection rules allow IT administrators to redirect non-profile or other specific data into the 

user profile container so it's available on subsequent sign-ins regardless of which virtual 

machine they sign into. 

App container (VHD) rule (retired) 

   ７ Note 

   App container rules have been retired as of February 11, 2025 and are no longer 

   supported. Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

Specify value rule 

The specify value rule will, at sign-in, set a registry value for a specific user or group of users. 

This rule is most commonly used when users need HKLM-based registry key values to change 

based on which users are signing in. 

Rule Assignments 

   ） Important 

   FSLogix Apps Rule Set assignments don't support Microsoft Entra ID cloud-only accounts. 

   To use the assignment functionality, you must sync the users and groups from an Active 

   Directory domain controller. Additionally, the virtual machines must have line-of-sight to a 

   domain controller to resolve SIDs. 

Application Rule Sets are assigned to users, groups, and other entities using the RuleEditor. 

Newly created rules automatically have the Everyone group assigned with the Applies setting 

configured to No. 

Assignment order 

----------------------- Page 30-----------------------

The ordering of assignments affects how the Rule Set is applied. When the assignment file is 

processed, the Rule Set is applied from top to bottom. Assignment ordering is managed using 

the  Move Up and  Move Down buttons. 

Figure 1: Everyone group processed at top 

Result: Rule Set applies to  CONTOSO\Domain Users only. 

Figure 2: Everyone group processed at bottom 

----------------------- Page 31-----------------------

Result: Rule Set does not apply to any user or group. 

Assignment types 

You can assign Rule Sets to the following entities: 

      User 

      Group 

      Process 

      Network Location (IP Address) 

      Computer 

      Directory container (distinguished name) 

      Environment variable 

   ７ Note 

   Any environment variable present at user sign in can be used as part of an assignment. 

Assignment template 

You can save the assignments and assignment order as a template for later use. This template 

becomes the default assignment configuration for any new Rule Sets you create on the same 

machine. 

Figure 3: Save as Template warning dialog 

Active Directory (AD) Reporting 

   ７ Note 

   Active Directory reporting has been deprecated as of August 22, 2023. Please review the 

   feature deprecation page for additional information. 

----------------------- Page 32-----------------------

Administrators use the AD Reporting feature to validate whether the Rule Set file applies to the 

expected user or users. The report only shows user accounts affected by the assignment and 

doesn't display groups. 

Figure 4: AD Reporting window 

Next steps 

  Install FSLogix Apps RuleEditor 

  Create and implement Application Rule Sets 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 33-----------------------

FSLogix Apps Java RuleEditor (retired) 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage             . 

   ７ Note 

         Internet Explorer 11 desktop application ended support for certain operating 

         systems. The Java RuleEditor relies on Internet Explorer 11. 

         Java Rule Editor has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no longer supported. 

         Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

The Java Rule Editor is a standalone tool and allows specific URLs or applications to be 

assigned to a specific installed version of Java. 

Java RuleEditor guides 

      Install FSLogix Apps Java RuleEditor 

      Configure FSLogix Apps Java Rules 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 34-----------------------

Prerequisites 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have access 

   issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to AES-SHA1 

   before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos hardening 

   (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

   ７ Note 

   We recommend customers upgrade to the latest version            of FSLogix as quickly as their 

   deployment process can allow. FSLogix provides hotfix releases that address current and 

   potential bugs that impact customer deployments. Additionally, it is the first requirement 

   when opening any support request. 

FSLogix may be used in any public / private data center or cloud, as long as the user is properly 

licensed. FSLogix operates on all Microsoft supported operating systems that include, but isn't 

limited to: 

      Windows 10 and Windows 11 

      Windows Server 2016, 2019, 2022, 2025 

Eligibility 

You're eligible to use FSLogix if you have one of the following licenses: 

      Microsoft 365 E3/E5 

      Microsoft 365 A3/A5/ Student Use Benefits 

      Microsoft 365 F1/F3 

      Microsoft 365 Business 

      Windows 10 Enterprise E3/E5 

      Windows 10 Education A3/A5 

      Remote Desktop Services (RDS) Client Access License (CAL) 

      Remote Desktop Services (RDS) Subscriber Access License (SAL) 

----------------------- Page 35-----------------------

      Azure Virtual Desktop per-user access license 

Identity and Authentication considerations 

Understanding your organization identity and authentication framework is a critical component in 

a successful FSLogix solution. FSLogix and your users are dependent on the underlying identity 

configuration to ensure they're able to access the storage provider, applications and process rule 

sets. 

Identity next steps 

 ＂   Entra ID Integration Methods 

 ＂   Device identity and desktop virtualization 

Storage considerations 

Before implementing FSLogix, it's important to properly design and configure your storage 

infrastructure based on your workload, user, and business requirements. FSLogix doesn't provide 

storage architecture or design guidance. The following next steps are provided as guides in your 

solution design process. 

Storage next steps 

 ＂  Types of Containers 

 ＂   Configuration Examples 

 ＂   Container Storage Options 

 ＂   Configure Storage Permissions 

Network considerations 

Network configuration also plays an important aspect when designing your profile management 

solution using FSLogix. FSLogix is unique in that the standard configuration relies on mounting a 

container from a remote storage provider. Regardless of the configuration, network latency, 

bandwidth and proximity to the storage provider is pivotal to the user's experience. 

Configure Antivirus file and folder exclusions 

To ensure FSLogix operates reliably, configure your antivirus (AV) and security tools to exclude the 

following items. 

----------------------- Page 36-----------------------

   Tip 

        The most common SMB or UNC paths are in the form of  \\{server-name}.contoso.com\ 

        {share-name} or  \\{storage-account-name}.file.core.windows.net\{share-name}, adjust 

        the exclusions based on your configuration. 

        %TEMP%  is the temporary path in the user's profile and  %WINDIR%\TEMP is the temporary 

        path for the system. 

        If you change the default location of the cache or proxy folder, adjust the exclusions 

        based on your configuration. 

                                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

Exclusion Item                                     Type           Purpose                Impact if Not Excluded 

frxsvc.exe  frxccds.exe,                           Executables    Prevent AV             Delays or timeouts in profile 

                                                                  scanning/blocking      mounting; service crashes 

                                                                  FSLogix services       during logon 

                                                                  and Cloud Cache 

                                                                  process 

frxdrv.sys  frxdrvvt.sys  frxccd.sys,  ,           Driver Files   Avoid AV               File access issues, driver 

                                                                  interference with      blocking, degraded I/O 

                                                                  FSLogix file           performance 

                                                                  system filter 

                                                                  drivers 

C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\                     Directory      Exclude FSLogix        AV scanning causes high CPU 

                                                                  binaries and           usage, slow FSLogix 

                                                                  utilities              responses 

C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\                            Directory      Exclude FSLogix        Risk of AV locking or 

                                                                  configuration and      quarantining FSLogix files 

                                                                  logs 

C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\FSLogix\         Directory      Exclude per-user       Latency during logon/logoff; 

                                                                  FSLogix local data     profile load failures 

%ProgramData%\FSLogix\Cache\*                      Cloud          Exclude cache          Avoid AV interference with 

                                                   Cache          files                  Cloud Cache operations 
                                                   Folder 

%ProgramData%\FSLogix\Proxy\*                      Cloud          Exclude proxy          Same as above 

                                                   Cache          files 
                                                   Folder 

----------------------- Page 37-----------------------

 Exclusion Item                                    Type            Purpose               Impact if Not Excluded 

  %TEMP%\*\*.VHD  %TEMP%\*\*.VHDX,                  User-based     Exclude user-        AV locking during profile 

                                                   Temporary       based temporary      operations 
                                                    Files         VHD/VHDX files 

                                                                   (for example, 
                                                                  difference disks) 

  %WINDIR%\TEMP\*\*.VHD,                            System-        Exclude system-      Same as above 

  %WINDIR%\TEMP\*\*.VHDX                            based          based temporary 
                                                   Temporary      VHD/VHDX files 

                                                    Files          (for example, 
                                                                  difference disks) 

  \\{SMB or UNC path}\*\*.VHD  *.VHD.lock,   ,      SMB File       Exclude FSLogix       Prevent AV from locking or 

  *.VHD.meta  *.VHD.metadata,                       Share         containers and        corrupting files 
                                                                  associated files on 

                                                                   SMB file shares 

  \\{SMB or UNC path}\*\*.VHDX  *.VHDX.lock,   ,    SMB File       Same as above        Same as above 
                                                    Share 
  *.VHDX.meta  *.VHDX.metadata,  

  HKLM\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\                            Profile        Prevent AV/DLP       Stale registry entries, 
                                                    Registry       interference with    temporary profiles, slower 

                                                    Keys           FSLogix               logon 
                                                                  configuration 

  HKLM\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\                   ODFC           Prevent AV/DLP       Stale registry entries, 

                                                    Registry       interference with    temporary profiles, slower 
                                                    Keys           FSLogix               logon 

                                                                  configuration 

 FSLogix Profile Mount Points                      VHD(X)         Avoid scanning         ERROR_SHARING_VIOLATION, 
                                                   Attach         during container      temp profiles, logoff hangs 

                                                    Points        attach/detach 

Recommended Practice 

      Apply these exclusions in all layers of security (endpoint AV, network scanning, DLP). 

      Validate exclusions after policy deployment to prevent login delays or profile failures. 

Next steps 

  FSLogix Release Notes 

  Download and install FSLogix 

----------------------- Page 38-----------------------

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 39-----------------------

Types of containers 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

FSLogix has two (2) primary container types, which can be implemented as part of your profile 

management solution. As outlined in our terminology page, FSLogix containers are the virtual 

hard disk (VHD(x)) files, which hold all of the data for the given container type. 

   ７ Note 

   Cloud Cache isn't a type of container, but it is an optional configuration for profile and 

   ODFC container types. For more information, see Cloud Cache overview. 

Profile container 

A profile container is the most common container used in an FSLogix solution. A profile 

container is all the data related to a user's profile, which is directly stored in the VHD(x). A 

Windows user profile is typically stored in  C:\Users\%username% . Nearly all the files and folders 

found under this location would be included in an FSLogix profile container. Some data in a 

users profile shouldn't or can't be roamed which can be found in the exclusion list. 

For users familiar with managing profiles, the function of the profile container may be 

compared to Microsoft User Profile Disk (UPD), Microsoft roaming profiles, or Citrix User Profile 

Management (UPM). Although the function is similar, the underlying method and technology is 

different, resulting in key FSLogix capabilities. 

   ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 40-----------------------

   Unless otherwise configured, the profile container will hold all profile and ODFC content in 

   the same VHD(x) file. This is the recommended configuration. 

Profile excluded content 

There's two ways FSLogix excludes profile content from a user's VHD(x) container. 

Redirection based exclusions 

Profile content that can't be stored inside the user's VHD(x) container is redirected from the 

native profile path to a new folder in the  C:\Users path. This folder is prefixed with  local_  and 

combined with the user's SAM account name (for example,  C:\Users\local_%username% ). The 

local redirect is created to prevent issues with applications or processes that need access to 

this data in the event the remote storage provider is unavailable. During sign out, the 

C:\Users\local_%username%  folder is deleted. 

FSLogix automatically redirects the following paths to the  C:\Users\local_%username%  path: 

       %userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Protect 

       %userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Credentials 

       %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Credentials 

       %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\OfficeFileCache 

Deletion based exclusions 

Profile content that isn't designed to be roamed between virtual machines is deleted from the 

user's VHD(x) container when the user is signed out. These deletion based exclusions are 

implemented based on the recommendations of the product teams which are responsible for 

the content. 

Nonroa ma ble  a pplicat ion  data  (MSIX) 

       AppData\Local\Packages\*\AC 

       AppData\Local\Packages\*\SystemAppData 

       AppData\Local\Packages\*\LocalCache 

       AppData\Local\Packages\*\TempState 

       AppData\Local\Packages\*\AppData 

Reference: ApplicationData Class (Windows.Storage) - Windows apps 

----------------------- Page 41-----------------------

Nonroa ma ble  ident ity  data 

Roaming this data through the RoamIdentity setting is not recommended. 

       AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.AAD.BrokerPlugin_cw5n1h2txyewy 

       AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.CloudExperienceHost_cw5n1h2txyewy 

       AppData\Local\Microsoft\TokenBroker 

       AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneAuth 

       AppData\Local\Microsoft\IdentityCache 

       HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\IdentityCRL 

       HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\AAD 

       HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\WorkplaceJoin 

       HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\TokenBroker 

Reference:  Device identity and desktop virtualization 

ODFC container 

An ODFC container is a container type, which is focused on storing profile content that is 

                                              1 
unique to Microsoft Office applications  . The ODFC container is most commonly implemented 

                                                     2 
in conjunction other roaming profile solutions  . 

1 Office data includes, but is not limited to Office apps, OneDrive, Teams, SharePoint, and OneNote. 

2 Traditional roaming profiles, Citrix User Profile Management, VMware Dynamic Environment Manager, or similar. 

   ） Important 

   When using ODFC containers with other profile roaming solutions, be sure the other 

   solutions are configured to exclude the ODFC data. 

A default ODFC container configuration includes the following data: 

      Office Activation 

      Outlook 

      Outlook personalization 

      SharePoint 

      OneDrive 

      Skype for Business (legacy support) 

Most data contained in the ODFC container is sourced from other remote systems and is easily 

replaced should the ODFC container become corrupted or deleted. For example, Outlook data 

----------------------- Page 42-----------------------

files are generated from remote e-mail servers (for example, Microsoft 365). The list of 

applications that can be included are found in the ODFC reference article. 

   ７ Note 

   ODFC containers are an optional configuration. 

When to use Profile and ODFC containers 

Profile and ODFC containers should be used together when: 

       Discretion is wanted in the storage location for Office data vs. other profile data. 

                                                                                              3 
       Provides isolation from data loss or corruption in one of the containers  . 

       Used as a mechanism to specify which Office components have their data included in the 

                  4 
       container  . 

       Allows organizations to have different container sizes to accommodate specific workloads 

                                            5 
       or data synced from OneDrive  . 

3 ODFC container is not backed up or replicated to alternate locations since the data is recoverable from the source. 

4 Not available when using a single container configuration. 

5 Configure 10 GB profile container with a 50 GB ODFC container. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 43-----------------------

Container storage options 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage             . 

Storage options for FSLogix containers can vary widely depending on many factors. The first 

factor(s) when choosing storage are the platform (that is, Azure, on-premises, etc.) and location 

(that is, geographical region or datacenter) of your virtual infrastructure. This document 

outlines the various options and considerations when choosing and designing your container 

storage. 

Storage requirements 

Storage requirements can vary widely depending on the user, applications, and activity on each 

profile. The following table gives an example of how many IOPS an FSLogix profile needs to 

support each user. 

                                                                                       ﾉ   Expand table 

  Resource                                                      Requirement 

 Steady state IOPS                                              10 

 Sign in/sign out IOPS                                          50 

The example in this table is of a single user, but can be used to estimate requirements for the 

total number of users in your environment. For example, you'd need around 1,000 IOPS for 100 

users, and around 5,000 IOPS when signing in and signing out. 

Storage types 

----------------------- Page 44-----------------------

Regardless of your container configuration, all FSLogix containers can be stored on file shares 

that support the SMB protocol. If you decided to use Cloud Cache as part of your 

configuration, you can choose to store your containers in an Azure Storage Account Blob. 

SMB file shares 

Used in: 

 ＂   VHDLocations for profile and ODFC containers 

 ＂   CCDLocations (Cloud Cache) for profile and ODFC containers 

SMB is a network file and resource sharing protocol that uses a client-server model. SMB 

clients such as, Windows PCs on a network, connect to SMB storage providers to access 

resources such as files and directories. FSLogix doesn't implement a private SMB client or 

protocol. FSLogix uses the built-in SMB client from the virtual machines operating system and 

isn't bound by SMB protocol version. Additionally, if the SMB storage provider and the 

Windows client are able to negotiate for SMB multi-channel then FSLogix gains this benefit. 

Azure page blob storage accounts 

Used in: 

 ＂   CCDLocations (Cloud Cache) for profile and ODFC containers ONLY 

FSLogix communicates with the Azure Storage Account using the Storage Account Connection 

String. As outlined in this article, the connection string contains protected security information. 

Knowledge of this information exposes a security risk that must be considered and mitigated 

before using this type of storage provider. To correctly implement this type of storage provider, 

the connection string or Storage Account name and Account Key must be  stored in the 

virtual machines credential manager. 

Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) or Azure based virtual 
desktop environments 

Azure provides multiple storage solutions that can be used to store your FSLogix containers. 

This section compares Azure storage providers for AVD and other Azure based virtual desktop 

environments (for example, VMware, Citrix      , RDS, etc.). 

                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 45-----------------------

                     Azure Files               Azure NetApp Files        Azure Page           Storage Spaces 
                                                                         Blob1                Direct 

  Use case            General purpose          Ultra performance or      General purpose      Cross-platform 
                                               migration from 
                                               NetApp on-premises 

  Platform           Yes, Azure-native         Yes, Azure-native         Yes, Azure-          No, self-managed 
  service             solution                 solution                  native solution 

  Regional           All regions               Select regions            All regions          All regions 
  availability 

  Redundancy          LRS, ZRS, GRS, GZRS      Locally redundant,        Varies               Varies 
                                               Cross-region 
                                               replication 

  Tiers and           Premium,                 Ultra, Premium, or        Tiers: Varies,       Ultra, Premium SSD 
  performance        Transaction               Standard                  Performance:         v2, Premium SSD, 
                      Optimized, Hot, or                                 Varies               Standard SSD, 
                      Cool                                                                    Standard HDD 

  Capacity            100 TiB per share,       100 TiB per volume,       Up to 8 TiB          32 TiB - 65 TiB per 
                      Up to 5 PiB per          25 TiB default quota                           Disk 
                      general purpose          per Subscription 
                      account 

  Limitations         10,000 handles per       1,000 IP(s) per subnet    Varies               Varies based on 
                     file share                up to VM limits                                number of nodes 
                                                                                              and disks 

1 Azure page blobs are only used in Cloud Cache containers 

On-premises or other workload platforms 

When FSLogix is implemented in non-Azure environments, the storage options become 

limitless. As described in the storage type section, FSLogix requires the storage provider to 

support SMB and work with the built-in Windows SMB client. The most important factor when 

selecting a storage platform for FSLogix containers, is the proximity (latency) to the virtual 

desktop infrastructure and the performance of the system in relation to your user workloads. 

Next steps 

As outlined, FSLogix can be used with various storage options. Use the next step articles to 

create the right storage location for your environment: 

----------------------- Page 46-----------------------

Azure Files 

      Create an SMB Azure file share 

      Overview - on-premises Active Directory Domain Services authentication over SMB for 

      Azure file shares 

      Enable Azure Active Directory Domain Services authentication on Azure Files 

      Enable Azure Active Directory Kerberos authentication for hybrid identities on Azure Files 

Azure NetApp Files 

      Create an SMB volume for Azure NetApp Files also apply when you use an FSLogix profile 

      container instead of a user profile disk 

Storage permissions 

      Configure SMB Storage Permissions 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 47-----------------------

Configuration options 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

FSLogix operates based on specific registry settings that define how it operates. These registry 

settings are applied on a per-machine level. For information on each registry setting and the 

expected behavior, see Configuration settings reference. 

There are several ways to apply registry settings depending on the scenario and scale of your 

environment: 

      Manual registry entries: The manual method implies adding registry entries directly 

      through one of these types of processes: 

         Registry Editor 

         Registration Files 

         Console Registry Tool for Windows 

         PowerShell 

         Desired State Configuration 

        ７ Note 

        Using a manual method is perfect for single machines in a test or development 

        environment. With the right expertise, this method could scale and work within an 

        automated orchestration framework (for example, Azure DevOps, Jenkins, Chef, or 

        Puppet). 

      Local Group Policy (ADMX): You can use the Local Group Policy editor to configure 

      FSLogix through the ADMX files when they're stored locally on the virtual machine. Unlike 

      the manual methods, this method doesn't scale and is used only as part of a test or 

      development environment. 

----------------------- Page 48-----------------------

      Group Policy Objects (ADMX): Group Policy Objects are an ideal method for large-scale 

      configuration, especially where there isn't any existing automation. 

      Intune (settings catalog): An Intune policy can target Windows 10 or Windows 11 

      multisession operating systems. You can find the FSLogix settings in the settings catalog. 

Next step 

  Configuration examples 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 49-----------------------

Install FSLogix applications 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

This article describes how to download and install FSLogix Apps (Core Product), Rule Editor, 

and Java Rule Editor (retired). 

All FSLogix installations use the same steps no matter if the installation is new or an upgrade. 

Prerequisites 

      Review the FSLogix prerequisites. 

      Review the Installation FAQ. 

      Review the Release Notes. 

Download FSLogix 

We recommend that you upgrade to the latest version          of FSLogix as quickly as your 

deployment process can allow. FSLogix provides hotfix releases to address current and 

potential bugs that affect customer deployments. To open a support case, you're required to 

have the latest version. 

You can download FSLogix via direct download or through Microsoft Download Center. 

Direct download 

If you integrate the download and installation of FSLogix as part of an automated build routine, 

you can obtain the latest version of FSLogix on this website     . 

----------------------- Page 50-----------------------

Microsoft Download Center 

                                                1 
You can search and find previous versions  of FSLogix on Microsoft Download Center. 

1 Microsoft Download Center provides only the last two feature and associated hotfix releases. 

Install FSLogix Apps (Core Product) 

    1. Extract the downloaded .zip file. 

    2. Go to the directory where the files were extracted. 

    3. Double-click x64 (64-bit). 

    4. Double-click Release. 

    5. Double-click FSLogixAppsSetup.exe. 

    6. Agree to the licensing terms, and select  Install. 

         ７ Note 

         You can install FSLogix Apps to an alternate location, but we don't recommend it. 

    7. Observe the FSLogix Apps installation progress. 

----------------------- Page 51-----------------------

   8. Reboot. 

Install FSLogix Apps Rule Editor and Java Rule 
Editor (retired) 

The Rule Editor and Java Rule Editor (retired) are intended for administrator workstations. 

Be aware that: 

      Both the Rule Editor and Java Rule Editor (retired) installation dialogs are identical to the 

      screenshots and aren't provided here. 

      You can install the editors to an alternate location, but we don't recommend it. 

    1. Extract the downloaded .zip file. 

   2. Go to the directory where the files were extracted. 

   3. Double-click x64 (64-bit). 

   4. Double-click Release. 

   5. Double-click FSLogixAppsRuleEditorSetup.exe. 

   6. Agree to the licensing terms, and select  Install. 

Unattended installation options 

Each of the FSLogix installers supports unattended and silent installation for automated use 

cases. Installation commands and descriptions are described in the following table. 

----------------------- Page 52-----------------------

                                                                                               ﾉ    Expand table 

  Command switch          Description 

  /install                Default product installation. 

  /repair                 Repairs a previous product installation. 

  /uninstall              Uninstalls a previous product installation. 

  /layout                 Creates a local copy of the install bundle. 

  /passive                Displays minimal UI and no prompts. 

  /quiet                  Displays no UI and no prompts. 

  /norestart              Suppresses any attempts to restart. By default, the UI prompts before restart. 

  /log log.txt            Logs installation to a specific path and file. Default log is in  %TEMP% . 

Verify product installation and version 

Before you begin verification, make sure that: 

       You manually installed FSLogix. 

       It was installed as part of your golden image. 

       It was preinstalled as part of the Windows 10 or Windows 11 Azure Marketplace image. 

It doesn't matter how FSLogix was installed. Verifying the installation and version is a valuable 

step before configuration. 

For the most recent release, see the Release Notes. 

Installed apps 

    1. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account that has 

       administrative privileges. 

    2. Right-click the Start icon. 

    3. Select Installed apps. 

----------------------- Page 53-----------------------

4. Locate Microsoft FSLogix Apps. 

----------------------- Page 54-----------------------

Command line 

   1. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account that has 

      administrative privileges. 

   2. Select Start and enter command prompt in the Start menu search box. 

   3. Select Command Prompt on the Start menu. 

   4. Change the directory to C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps. 

   5. Enter frx version. 

----------------------- Page 55-----------------------

Related content 

      Configuration options 

      Configuration examples 

      Configure profile containers 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 56-----------------------

Configuration examples 

      Summarize this article for me 

The example configurations outlined in this article are a progression of complexity based on 

configuration choices. Each example has an associated configuration focused on redundancy or 

disaster recovery. We recommend that you select the simplest configuration for your 

environment. Adding unnecessary complexity leads to incorrect configurations and support 

cases. 

Use these examples as a starting point of your FSLogix configuration. The ideas and concepts 

in these examples should inform your unique organizational requirements. 

Example 1: Standard 

The Standard configuration example is the simplest configuration. Most customers should 

consider it. 

Prerequisites (Standard) 

 ＂    FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Server Message Block (SMB) file share. 

 ＂  Validated share and New Technology File System (NTFS) permissions. 

Configuration items (Standard) 

                                                                                            ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                          Description 

  Single virtual hard disk       The  VHDLocations setting contains a single Universal Naming Convention 
  (VHD) location                 (UNC) path to an SMB file share. 

  Single container               A single profile container is created for the user. The Office Data and Files 
                                 Container (ODFC) isn't configured. 

  No concurrent connections      The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a 

                                 user's profile within only a single connection. 

  No custom profile              No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  redirections 

----------------------- Page 57-----------------------

Registry settings (Standard) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Key name                                     Data         Value                              Description 
                                               type 

  Enabled                                      DWORD         1                                 REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1        DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                            DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                         DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                 DWORD         0                                 Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                     DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                          DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                    DWORD         30000                             Default 

 VHDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-               Example 
                                               or            name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                               REG_SZ        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                   REG_SZ       VHDX                               Recommended 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 2: Standard  + High Availability (Cloud 
Cache) 

The Standard + High Availability configuration example enhances the basic  Standard example 

by incorporating Cloud Cache to ensure regional availability for the profile container. This 

configuration is designed to provide robustness and redundancy. The profile container is 

accessible even if failures or outages occur in a specific region. 

----------------------- Page 58-----------------------

Cloud Cache acts as a resiliency and availability layer and periodically writes profile data 

upstream to multiple storage providers. By replicating data across unique storage providers, it 

ensures that the profile container remains available even if one storage provider is unavailable. 

This approach enhances reliability and minimizes downtime for users. 

Key points 

      Redundant and robust: Allows the profile container to be accessible even if failures or 

      outages occur, which minimizes downtime for users. 

      Resiliency: Cloud Cache acts as an availability layer and periodically writes profile data 

      upstream to multiple storage providers. 

      Storage design expertise: Cloud Cache functionality is dependent on the performance of 

      your storage providers. 

Summary 

The Standard + High Availability configuration combines the benefits of the Standard setup 

with other measures to maintain availability across regions. The combination makes it suitable 

for critical applications that require continuous access to profile data. 

----------------------- Page 59-----------------------

                                                                       

Figure 1: FSLogix High Availability using Cloud Cache 

Prerequisites (Standard  + High Availability) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Multiple storage providers in the same region or zone-redundant storage. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Standard  + High Availability) 

                                                                                       ﾉ   Expand table 

 Items                   Description 

 Container              The  CCDLocations setting contains at least two storage providers of varying kinds. 
 redundancy             The storage providers are in the same region as the virtual machines. 

----------------------- Page 60-----------------------

 Items                    Description 

 Single container         A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                          configured. 

 No concurrent            The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
 connections              profile within only a single connection. 

 No custom profile        No use of the redirections.xml file. 
 redirections 

Registry settings (Standard  + High Availability) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                      Data         Value                              Description 
                                               type 

 CCDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      type=smb,name="FILES SMB          Example 
                                               or           PROVIDER",connectionString=\\ 
                                               REG_SZ       <storage-account-name- 

                                                            1>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                            <share- 

                                                            name>;type=smb,name="ANF SMB 

                                                            PROVIDER",connectionString=\\ 

                                                            <azure-netapp-files-fqdn>\ 

                                                            <volume-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                           DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 Enabled                                       DWORD        1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2         DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                 DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4          DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                             DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                          DWORD         15                                Recommended 

 ProfileType6                                  DWORD         0                                 Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                      DWORD         15                                Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                           DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                     DWORD        30000                              Default 

----------------------- Page 61-----------------------

  Key name                                        Data         Value                                Description 
                                                  type 

  VolumeType7                                     REG_SZ       VHDX                                 Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 3: Standard  + Disaster Recovery (no 
profile recovery) 

The Standard + Disaster Recovery configuration example is an extension of the basic  Standard 

example. In this setup, duplicate infrastructure exists in another region, but it remains powered 

down until needed. Unlike other recovery scenarios, there's no profile recovery in this 

approach. Instead, users create new profiles in the alternate location. This recovery scenario is 

the least complex, but it comes with a significant drawback. User experience and training are 

critical components for success. 

Key points 

       Duplicate infrastructure: The disaster recovery region mirrors the primary infrastructure 

       but remains inactive until required. 

       No profile recovery: Instead of restoring existing profiles, users create new ones in the 

       alternate location. 

       Simplicity: This approach minimizes complexity but relies heavily on user familiarity and 

       training. 

       User experience: Ensuring a smooth transition and user understanding is crucial. 

Summary 

The Standard + Disaster Recovery configuration balances simplicity with the need for user 

education and adaptation. 

----------------------- Page 62-----------------------

                                                                          

Figure 2: No profile recovery | FSLogix standard containers (VHDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Duplicate storage and compute infrastructure in another region. 

 ＂  Validated NTFS and share-level permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                     Description 

 Single VHD location        The  VHDLocations setting contains a single UNC path to an SMB file share. 

 Single container           A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                            configured. 

  No concurrent             The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
 connections                profile within only a single connection. 

  No custom profile         No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  redirections 

Registry settings (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

----------------------- Page 63-----------------------

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                       Data         Value                              Description 
                                                 type 

  Enabled                                        DWORD        1                                  REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1          DWORD        1                                  Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                  DWORD        1                                  Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                              DWORD        3                                  Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                           DWORD        15                                 Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                   DWORD        0                                  Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                       DWORD        15                                 Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                            DWORD        3                                  Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                      DWORD        30000                              Default 

  VHDLocations                                   MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-               Example 

                                                 or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                                 REG_SZ       <share-name> 

  VolumeType5                                    REG_SZ       VHDX                               Recommended 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 4: Advanced 

The Advanced configuration example builds upon the Standard example by introducing more 

features to enhance flexibility and customization. 

Key points 

       Multiple VHDLocations or object-specific settings: You can specify multiple locations for 

       storing user profiles (VHDLocations). Alternatively, you can define object-specific settings 

       to tailor profile behavior for specific users or groups. This flexibility allows you to optimize 

       profile management based on your organization's needs. 

----------------------- Page 64-----------------------

      Minimal entries in custom profile redirections: Unlike the Standard setup, where the 

      redirections.xml file isn't used, the Advanced configuration minimizes the number of 

      redirections.xml entries. Each entry in the redirections.xml configuration adds complexity 

      and can cause unknown application behaviors. Minimizing these entries might provide an 

      overall better user experience. 

Summary 

The Advanced configuration provides granular control over profile storage and redirection, 

making it suitable for organizations with diverse requirements. 

Prerequisites (Advanced) 

 ＂    FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂    Multiple SMB file shares. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Advanced) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Items                     Description 

  Multiple VHD locations    The  VHDLocations setting contains a single or multiple UNC paths (separated by 

                            semicolon) to SMB file shares. 

  Object-specific           Allows unique settings based on a user or group SID. 
  settings 

  Single container          A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                            configured. 

  No concurrent             The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
  connections               profile within only a single connection. 

  Minimal                   The .xml file contains minimal entries with minor complexity. 
  redirections.xml 

For more information, see Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

----------------------- Page 65-----------------------

Registry settings (Advanced) 

Multiple VHDLocations 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data type   Value                          Description 

  Enabled                                   DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1     DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2             DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                         DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                      DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ProfileType4                              DWORD       0                              Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                  DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                       DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                      REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-name-       Example 
                                           or           1>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name>;\\<storage- 

                                                        account-name- 

                                                        2>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Obj ect-specific VHDLocations 

The default  VHDLocations setting is used for any user or group that isn't matched by the 

object-specific configuration. 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 66-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data       Value                           Description 
                                           type 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1      DWORD       1                              Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2              DWORD       1                              Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount3                          DWORD       3                              Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval3                       DWORD       15                             Recommended 

 ProfileType4                               DWORD       0                              Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                   DWORD       15                             Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount3                        DWORD       3                              Recommended 

 RedirXMLSourceFolder                       REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-            Example 
                                           or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ     VHDX                            Recommended 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-1234\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name            Data type                  Value                                 Description 

 VHDLocations        MULTI_SZ or REG_SZ         \\<server-name>\<share-name>          Example 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-4321\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name        Data type          Value                                                 Description 

 VHDLocations    MULTI_SZ or        \\<azure-netapp-files-computer-                       Example 

                 REG_SZ             account>.contoso.com\<share-name> 

----------------------- Page 67-----------------------

   ２ Warning 

   Use of multiple entries in  VHDLocations doesn't provide container resiliency. When 

   multiple entries exist, users try to create or locate their container from the list of locations 

   in order. The first location to which the user has access or that's available is where the 

   container is created or attached from. If you use multiple entries, users should have access 

   to only a single location. Consider using the object-specific configuration settings instead of 

   multiple VHDLocations. 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

 Example 5: Advanced  + Disaster Recovery (primary 
/ failover) 

The Advanced + Disaster Recovery configuration example adds complexity through a failover 

design. This common strategy helps to ensure the availability and reliability of your 

infrastructure if there's a disaster or a failure. With Cloud Cache, you can configure your devices 

to use two storage providers that store your profile data in different locations. 

Cloud Cache synchronizes your profile data to each of the two storage providers 

asynchronously so that you always have the latest version of your data. Some of your devices 

are in the primary location and the other devices are in the failover location. Cloud Cache 

prioritizes the first storage provider (closest to your device) and uses the other storage provider 

as a backup. 

For example, if your primary device is in West US and your failover device is in East US, you can 

configure Cloud Cache in the following way: 

       The primary device uses a storage provider in West US as the first option and a storage 

       provider in East US as the second option. 

       The failover device uses a storage provider in East US as the first option and a storage 

       provider in West US as the second option. 

       If the primary device or the closest storage provider fails, you can switch to the failover 

       device or the backup storage provider and continue your work without losing your profile 

       data. 

----------------------- Page 68-----------------------

Key points 

      Failover design: This design ensures the availability and reliability of your infrastructure if 

      there's a disaster or a failure. 

      Profile storage: Cloud Cache enables you to store your profile data in different locations. 

      Extra storage cost: Multiple storage locations increase the overall cost. 

      Operational excellence: Manual failover process, which might require the approval of the 

      business stakeholders and process validation. 

      User experience: You might experience some latency or inconsistency in your profile data 

      because of the asynchronous synchronization to the two storage providers. 

Summary 

The Advanced + Disaster Recovery configuration shows how a failover design with Cloud 

Cache can enhance the reliability and availability of your infrastructure by using two storage 

providers in different locations. It also highlights the drawbacks of this approach, such as more 

costs, the need for manual failover initiation, and potential latency or inconsistency in profile 

data. 

                                                                       

Figure 3: Cloud Cache (primary/failover) | FSLogix Cloud Cache ( CCDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂  Two storage providers in at least two regions. 

----------------------- Page 69-----------------------

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                Description 

                                                                                      1 
  Container            The  CCDLocations setting contains two storage providers.   The primary site is 
  redundancy           configured with the closest storage provider listed first, and the failover storage 

                       provider is listed last. The failover site has the reverse configuration. The closest 
                       storage provider is first, and the primary site storage providers are listed last. 

  Single container     A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't configured. 

  No concurrent        The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's profile 
  connections          within only a single connection. 

  No custom            No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  profile 
  redirections 

1 The storage providers must be in different regions or locations. 

For our recommended exclusions, see Custom profile redirections. 

Registry settings (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

Primary site 

                                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                         Data          Value                                    Description 
                                                   type 

  CCDLocations                                     MULTI_SZ       type=smb,name="FILES SMB                Example 
                                                   or            PRIMARY",connectionString=\\ 
                                                   REG_SZ        <storage-account-name- 

                                                                 primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                 <share- 

                                                                 name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                                 PROVIDER 

                                                                 FAILOVER",connectionString=\\ 

                                                                 <storage-account-name- 

----------------------- Page 70-----------------------

 Key name                                  Data        Value                              Description 
                                           type 

                                                       failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 Enabled                                   DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2     DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3             DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                         DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                      DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ProfileType6                              DWORD       0                                  Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                  DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                       DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                 DWORD       30000                              Default 

 VolumeType7                               REG_SZ      VHDX                               Recommended 

Failover site 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                  Data        Value                              Description 
                                           type 

 CCDLocations                              MULTI_SZ    type=smb,name="FILES SMB           Example 
                                           or          FAILOVER",connectionString=\\ 
                                           REG_SZ      <storage-account-name- 

                                                       failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share- 

                                                       name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                       PROVIDER 

                                                       PRIMARY",connectionString=\\ 

                                                       <storage-account-name- 

                                                       primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

----------------------- Page 71-----------------------

  Key name                                       Data         Value                                  Description 
                                                 type 

  Enabled                                        DWORD        1                                      REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2          DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                  DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4           DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount5                              DWORD        3                                      Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval5                           DWORD        15                                     Recommended 

  ProfileType6                                   DWORD        0                                      Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                       DWORD        15                                     Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount5                            DWORD        3                                      Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                      DWORD        30000                                  Default 

  VolumeType7                                    REG_SZ       VHDX                                   Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 6: Complex 

The Complex configuration example builds upon the Advanced example by introducing 

multiple connections. In this setup, user profiles can handle multiple connections. For this 

reason, a single user can have active sessions across different devices simultaneously. 

Despite the increased complexity, the goal remains to provide a seamless experience for users. 

Properly configured multiple connections enhance productivity and flexibility, which makes this 

configuration suitable for organizations with diverse needs and high demands. 

Azure Virtual Desktop doesn't support multiple connections within the same host pool. 

Summary 

----------------------- Page 72-----------------------

The Complex configuration balances sophistication with user-centric design, making it ideal for 

large organizations requiring scalability and robust profile management. 

                                                                         

Figure 4: Complex example with multiple connections | FSLogix standard containers ( VHDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Complex) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Separate pools of virtual machines. 

 ＂   Multiple SMB file shares (not for high availability). 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Complex) 

                                                                                          ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                   Description 

  Multiple VHD            The  VHDLocations setting contains a single or multiple UNC paths (separated by 

  locations               a semicolon) to SMB file shares. 

  Object-specific         Allows unique settings based on a user or group SID. 
  settings 

----------------------- Page 73-----------------------

 Items                     Description 

 Single container          A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                           configured. 

 Concurrent                The  ProfileType setting is set to  3 . Users can have multiple sign-ins, but only 
 connections               one (1) session allows writes to the base VHD disk. 

 (Optional)                The .xml file contains various entries with added complexity. 
 redirections.xml 

For more information, see Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

Registry settings (Complex) 

Multiple VHDLocations 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                      Data type     Value                             Description 

  Enabled                                      DWORD         1                                 REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1        DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                            DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                         DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                 DWORD         0                                 Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                     DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                          DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                         REG_SZ        \\<server-name>\<share-name>      Example 

 SizeInMBs                                     DWORD         30000                             Default 

 VHDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-name-          Example 
                                               or            1>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                               REG_SZ        <share-name>;\\<storage- 

                                                             account-name- 

----------------------- Page 74-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data type   Value                          Description 

                                                        2>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Obj ect-specific VHDLocations 

The default  VHDLocations setting is used for any user or group that isn't matched by the 

object-specific configuration. 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data       Value                           Description 
                                           type 

  Enabled                                   DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1     DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2             DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                         DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                      DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ProfileType4                              DWORD       0                              Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                  DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                       DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                      REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-            Example 
                                           or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-1234\ 

----------------------- Page 75-----------------------

                                                                                                ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name              Data type                      Value                                       Description 

  VHDLocations          MULTI_SZ or REG_SZ             \\<server-name>\<share-name>                Example 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-4321\ 

                                                                                                ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name          Data type            Value                                                        Description 

  VHDLocations      MULTI_SZ or          \\<azure-netapp-files-computer-                              Example 
                    REG_SZ               account>.contoso.com\<share-name> 

   ２ Warning 

   Use of multiple entries in  VHDLocations doesn't provide container resiliency. When 

   multiple entries exist, a user tries to create or locate their container from the list of 

   locations in order. The first location to which the user has access or that's available is 

   where the container is created or attached from. If you use multiple entries, users should 

   have access to only a single location. Consider using the object-specific configuration 

   settings instead of multiple VHDLocations. 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 7: Complex  + Disaster Recovery (active / 
active) 

The Complex + Disaster Recovery configuration example builds upon the Advanced + Disaster 

Recovery example by implementing an active/active design. Instead of load balancing between 

the two sites, this configuration relies on users having access to only one location. If there's a 

drill or business continuity and disaster recovery, users from a failed region are granted access 

to virtual machines in the functioning region. 

----------------------- Page 76-----------------------

Key points 

      Failover capability: If a disaster occurs, the surviving regions must have capacity to 

      support all users. 

      Profile storage: Cloud Cache enables you to store your profile data in different locations. 

      Extra storage cost: Multiple storage locations increase the overall cost. 

      Operational excellence: Manual failover process, which might require the approval of the 

      business stakeholders, process validation, and proper user assignments. 

      User experience: You might experience some latency or inconsistency in your profile data 

      because of the asynchronous synchronization to the two storage providers. 

Summary 

The Complex + Disaster Recovery configuration with Cloud Cache provides redundancy and 

flexibility, but business decisions play a crucial role in initiating failover. 

                                                                       

Figure 5: Cloud Cache (active/active) | FSLogix Cloud Cache ( CCDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Separate pools of virtual machines in each location. 

 ＂   Users have access to only a single region at a time. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

----------------------- Page 77-----------------------

Configuration items (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                 Description 

                                                                                      1 
  Container             The  CCDLocations setting contains two storage providers.   The primary site is 
  redundancy            configured with the closest storage provider listed first and failover storage provider 

                        provided listed last. The failover site has the reverse configuration. The closest 
                        storage provider first, followed by the primary site storage providers listed last. 

  Single container      A Profile and ODFC container exists or is created for each user. 

  No concurrent         The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's profile 
  connections           within only a single connection. 

  (Optional)            The .xml file contains various entries with added complexity. 
  redirections.xml 

For more information, review Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

Registry settings (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

Site A (West US) 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                        Data          Value                                   Description 
                                                  type 

  CCDLocations                                    MULTI_SZ      type=smb,name="FILES SMB WEST           Example 
                                                  or            US",connectionString=\\<storage- 
                                                  REG_SZ        account-name- 

                                                                primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                <share- 

                                                                name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                                PROVIDER EAST 

                                                                US",connectionString=\\<storage- 

                                                                account-name- 

                                                                failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                <share-name> 

  ClearCacheOnLogoff1                             DWORD         1                                       Recommended 

----------------------- Page 78-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data        Value                              Description 
                                            type 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3              DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                          DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                       DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ProfileType6                               DWORD       0                                  Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                   DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                        DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                              Default 

 VolumeType7                                REG_SZ      VHDX                               Recommended 

Site B (East US) 

                                                                                     ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data        Value                              Description 
                                            type 

 CCDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    type=smb,name="FILES SMB EAST      Example 
                                            or          US",connectionString=\\<storage- 
                                            REG_SZ      account-name- 

                                                        failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share- 

                                                        name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                        PROVIDER WEST 

                                                        US",connectionString=\\<storage- 

                                                        account-name- 

                                                        primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                        DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

----------------------- Page 79-----------------------

  Key name                                         Data         Value                                    Description 
                                                  type 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                    DWORD        1                                        Recommended 

  HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4             DWORD        1                                        Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount5                                DWORD        3                                        Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval5                             DWORD        15                                       Recommended 

  ProfileType6                                     DWORD        0                                        Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                         DWORD        15                                       Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount5                              DWORD        3                                        Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                        DWORD        30000                                    Default 

  VolumeType7                                      REG_SZ       VHDX                                     Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Appendix: Multiple VHDLocations logic diagram 

When you use multiple values in the  VHDLocations setting, it's important to understand how 

FSLogix determines the location to use. 

   ２ Warning 

   Users who have access to multiple locations might create a new profile in another location 

   if the location for their actual profile isn't available. 

----------------------- Page 80-----------------------

                                                                                            

Figure 6:  VHDLocations logic diagram 

Next step 

  Use group policy templates 

 Last updated on 03/09/2026 

----------------------- Page 81-----------------------

Store FSLogix profile containers on Azure 
NetApp Files 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

FSLogix profile containers store a complete user profile in a single container and are designed 

to roam profiles in non-persistent remote computing environments like Azure Virtual Desktop. 

When you sign in, the container dynamically attaches to the computing environment using a 

locally supported virtual hard disk (VHD) and Hyper-V virtual hard disk (VHDX). These 

advanced filter-driver technologies allow the user profile to be immediately available and 

appear in the system exactly like a local user profile. To learn more about FSLogix profile 

containers, see User profile management with FSLogix profile containers. 

You can create FSLogix profile containers using Azure NetApp Files     , an easy-to-use Azure 

native platform service that helps customers quickly and reliably provision enterprise-grade 

SMB volumes for their Azure Virtual Desktop environments. To learn more about Azure NetApp 

Files, see What is Azure NetApp Files?. 

  ７ Note 

   This article doesn't cover best practices for securing access to the Azure NetApp Files 

   share. 

  ７ Note 

   If you're looking for comparison material about the different FSLogix Profile Container 

   storage options on Azure, see Storage options for FSLogix profile containers. 

----------------------- Page 82-----------------------

Considerations 

      To ensure optimal performance and scalability, limit the number of concurrent profiles 

      actively accessing FSLogix profile containers on a single Azure NetApp Files regular 

      volume to 3,000. Exceeding this limit can significantly increase latency. If your scenario 

      requires more than 3,000 concurrent users, consider distributing users across volumes 

      with each volume in a different availability zone. If this solution doesn't meet your needs, 

      please complete this form       . 

      FSLogix profile containers on Azure NetApp Files require Kerberos authentication and 

      therefore can only be accessed by users authenticating from Active Directory Domain 

      Services (AD DS) or Microsoft Entra Domain Services. 

      Azure NetApp Files can store FSLogix profiles with Microsoft Entra ID joined or Microsoft 

      Entra hybrid joined session hosts when user identities are backed by AD DS, such as in 

      hybrid identity scenarios where AD DS is the authoritative source and identities are 

      synchronized to Entra ID. 

         ） Important 

         Azure NetApp Files does not currently support FSLogix profile access using Entra- 

         only (cloud-only) identities, as Kerberos authentication without AD DS is not 

         supported. 

      To protect your FSLogix profile containers, consider using Azure NetApp Files snapshots 

      and Azure NetApp Files backup. 

Prerequisites 

Before you can configure an FSLogix profile container with Azure NetApp Files, you must have: 

      An Azure account with contributor or administrator permissions. 

Set up your Azure NetApp Files account 

To get started, you need to create and set up an Azure NetApp Files account. 

    1. To create a NetApp account, see Create a NetApp account. 

    2. You need to create a new capacity pool. See Create a capacity pool for Azure NetApp 

      Files. 

----------------------- Page 83-----------------------

    3. You then need to join an Active Directory connection. See Create and manage Active 

      Directory connections for Azure NetApp Files. 

   4. Create a new SMB volume. Follow the steps in Create an SMB volume for Azure NetApp 

      Files. 

         ７ Note 

         It's recommended that you enable Continuous Availability on the SMB volume for 

         use with FSLogix profile containers, so select Enable Continuous Availability. For 

         more information, see Enable Continuous Availability on existing SMB volumes. 

Configure permissions 

When configuring the directory and file-level permissions, review the recommended list of 

permissions for FSLogix profiles at Configure the storage permissions for profile containers. 

Without proper directory-level permissions in place, a user can delete the user profile or access 

the personal information of a different user. It's important to make sure users have proper 

permissions to prevent accidental deletion from happening. 

Configure FSLogix on your local Windows device 

To configure FSLogix on your local Windows device: 

    1. Follow the steps in Install FSLogix Applications. If configuring FSLogix in a host pool, 

      download the file while you're still remoted in the session host VM. 

    2. To configure your profile container, see Configure profile containers. 

         ７ Note 

               When adding the VHDLocations registry key, set the data type to  Multi-String 

               and set its data value to the URI for the Azure NetApp Files share. 

               Be careful when creating the DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply value. 

               When the FSLogix Profiles system determines a user should have an FSLogix 

               profile, but a local profile already exists, Profile Container will permanently 

               delete the local profile. The user will then be signed in with the new FSLogix 

               profile. 

----------------------- Page 84-----------------------

Make sure users can access the Azure NetApp Files 
share 

   1. Sign in to the Azure portal with an administrative account. 

   2. Open Azure NetApp Files, select your Azure NetApp Files account, and then select 

      Volumes. Once the Volumes menu opens, select the corresponding volume. 

   3. Go to the Overview tab and confirm that the FSLogix profile container is using space. 

   4. Open the File Explorer, then navigate to the Mount path. Within this folder, there should 

      be a profile VHD (or VHDX). 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 85-----------------------

Store FSLogix profile containers on Azure 
Files using Microsoft Entra ID 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

  ） Important 

  The following feature is currently in preview: 

        Storing FSLogix profile containers for cloud-only or external identities. 

   For legal terms that apply to Azure features that are in beta, in preview, or otherwise not 

  yet released into general availability, see Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure 

   Previews   . 

In this article, you'll learn how to create and configure an Azure Files share for Microsoft Entra 

Kerberos authentication. This configuration allows you to store FSLogix profiles to be accessed 

by different users, based on configuration: 

      By hybrid user identities from Microsoft Entra joined or Microsoft Entra hybrid joined 

      session hosts without requiring network line-of-sight to domain controllers. This feature 

      is supported in the Azure cloud, Azure for US Government, and Azure operated by 

      21Vianet. 

      By cloud-only identities or external identities. This functionality is in preview and only 

      available in the Azure cloud. 

Microsoft Entra Kerberos enables Microsoft Entra ID to issue the necessary Kerberos tickets to 

access the file share with the industry-standard SMB protocol. 

----------------------- Page 86-----------------------

Prerequisites 

Before deploying this solution, verify that your environment meets the requirements to 

configure Azure Files with Microsoft Entra Kerberos authentication. 

When used for FSLogix profiles in Azure Virtual Desktop, the session hosts don't need to have 

network line-of-sight to the domain controller (DC). However, a system with network line-of- 

sight to the DC is required to configure the permissions on the Azure Files share. 

Configure your Azure storage account and file 
share 

To store your FSLogix profiles on an Azure file share: 

   1. Create an Azure Storage account if you don't already have one. 

        ７ Note 

        Your Azure Storage account can't authenticate with both Microsoft Entra ID and a 

        second method like Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) or Microsoft Entra 

        Domain Services. You can only use one authentication method. 

   2. Create an Azure Files share under your storage account to store your FSLogix profiles if 

      you haven't already. 

   3. Enable Microsoft Entra Kerberos authentication on Azure Files to enable access from 

      Microsoft Entra joined VMs. 

           When configuring the directory and file-level permissions, review the recommended 

            list of permissions for FSLogix profiles at Configure the storage permissions for 

            profile containers. 

           Without proper directory-level permissions in place, a user can delete the user 

            profile or access the personal information of a different user. It's important to make 

           sure users have proper permissions to prevent accidental deletion from happening. 

Configure your local Windows device 

To access Azure file shares from a Microsoft Entra joined VM for FSLogix profiles, you must 

configure the local Windows device your FSLogix profiles are being loaded onto. To configure 

your device: 

----------------------- Page 87-----------------------

   1. Enable the Microsoft Entra Kerberos functionality using one of the following methods. 

           Configure this Intune Policy CSP with settings catalog and apply it to the session 

           host: Kerberos/CloudKerberosTicketRetrievalEnabled. 

        ７ Note 

        Windows multi-session client operating systems now support this setting provided it 

        is configured with Settings Catalog, where the setting is now available. Learn more at 

        Using Azure Virtual Desktop multi-session with Intune. 

           Enable this Group policy on your device. The path will be one of the following, 

           depending on the version of Windows you use: 

           Administrative Templates\System\Kerberos\Allow retrieving the cloud kerberos 

           ticket during the logon 

           Administrative Templates\System\Kerberos\Allow retrieving the Azure AD Kerberos 

           Ticket Granting Ticket during logon 

           Create the following registry value on your device:  reg add 

           HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Kerberos\Parameters /v 

           CloudKerberosTicketRetrievalEnabled /t REG_DWORD /d 1 

   2. When you use Microsoft Entra ID with a roaming profile solution like FSLogix, the 

     credential keys in Credential Manager must belong to the profile that's currently loading. 

     This lets you load your profile on many different VMs instead of being limited to just one. 

     To enable this setting, create a new registry value by running the following command: 

       reg add HKLM\Software\Policies\Microsoft\AzureADAccount /v  
       LoadCredKeyFromProfile /t REG_DWORD /d 1 

        ７ Note 

        The session hosts don't need network line-of-sight to the domain controller. 

Configure FSLogix on your local Windows device 

----------------------- Page 88-----------------------

This section shows you how to configure your local Windows device with FSLogix. You'll need 

to follow these instructions every time you configure a device. There are several options 

available that ensure the registry keys are set on all session hosts. You can set these options in 

an image or configure a group policy. 

To configure FSLogix: 

    1. Update or install FSLogix on your device, if needed. 

        ７ Note 

         If you're configuring a session host created using the Azure Virtual Desktop service, 

         FSLogix should already be pre-installed. 

   2. Follow the instructions in Configure profile container registry settings to create the 

      Enabled and VHDLocations registry values. Set the value of VHDLocations to  \\ 

      <Storage-account-name>.file.core.windows.net\<file-share-name>. 

Test your deployment 

Once you've installed and configured FSLogix, you can test your deployment by signing in with 

a user account that's been assigned to an application group on the host pool. The user account 

you sign in with must have permission to use the file share. 

If the user has signed in before, they'll have an existing local profile that the service will use 

during this session. To avoid creating a local profile, either create a new user account to use for 

tests or use the configuration methods described in Tutorial: Configure profile container to 

redirect user profiles to enable the DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply setting. 

Finally, verify the profile created in Azure Files after the user has successfully signed in: 

    1. Open the Azure portal and sign in with an administrative account. 

   2. From the sidebar, select Storage accounts. 

   3. Select the storage account you configured for your session host pool. 

   4. From the sidebar, select File shares. 

   5. Select the file share you configured to store the profiles. 

   6. If everything's set up correctly, you should see a directory with a name that's formatted 

      like this:  <user SID>_<username>. 

----------------------- Page 89-----------------------

Next steps 

     To troubleshoot FSLogix, see this troubleshooting guide. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 90-----------------------

Store FSLogix profile containers on 
Azure Files and Active Directory Domain 
Services or Microsoft Entra Domain 
Services 

Article  • 10/18/2024 

This article shows you how to set up a FSLogix profile container with Azure Files when 

your session host virtual machines (VMs) are joined to an Active Directory Domain 

Services (AD DS) domain or Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain. 

Prerequisites 

To configure a profile container, you need the following: 

      A host pool where the session hosts are joined to an AD DS domain or Microsoft 

      Entra Domain Services managed domain and users are assigned. 

      A security group in your domain that contains the users who will use the profile 

      container. If you're using AD DS, this must be synchronized to Microsoft Entra ID. 

      Permission on your Azure subscription to create a storage account and add role 

      assignments. 

      A domain account to join computers to the domain and open an elevated 

      PowerShell prompt. 

      The subscription ID of your Azure subscription where your storage account will be. 

      A computer joined to your domain for installing and running PowerShell modules 

      that will join a storage account to your domain. This device needs to be running a 

      Supported version of Windows. Alternatively, you can use a session host. 

  ） Important 

   If users have previously signed in to the session hosts you want to use, local 

   profiles will have been created for them and must be deleted first by an 

   administrator for their profile to be stored in a profile container. 

Set up a storage account for a profile container 

To set up a storage account: 

----------------------- Page 91-----------------------

    1. Create an Azure Storage account if you don't already have one. 

          Tip 

         Your organization may have requirements to change these defaults: 

               Whether you should select  Premium depends on your IOPS and latency 

               requirements. For more information, see Container storage options. 

               On the Advanced tab,  Enable storage account key access must be left 

               enabled. 

               For more information on the remaining configuration options, see Plan 

               for an Azure Files deployment. 

    2. Create an Azure Files share under your storage account to store your FSLogix 

      profiles if you haven't already. 

Join your storage account to Active Directory 

To use Active Directory accounts for the share permissions of your file share, you need 

to enable AD DS or Microsoft Entra Domain Services as a source. This process joins your 

storage account to a domain, representing it as a computer account. Select the relevant 

tab below for your scenario and follow the steps. 

  AD DS 

      1. Sign in to a computer that is joined to your AD DS domain. Alternatively, sign 

         in to one of your session hosts. 

      2. Download and extract the latest version of AzFilesHybrid            from the Azure 

         Files samples GitHub repo. Make a note of the folder you extract the files to. 

      3. Open an elevated PowerShell prompt and change to the directory where you 

         extracted the files. 

      4. Run the following command to add the  AzFilesHybrid module to your user's 

         PowerShell modules directory: 

            PowerShell 

            .\CopyToPSPath.ps1 

----------------------- Page 92-----------------------

5. Import the  AzFilesHybrid module by running the following command: 

     PowerShell 

      Import-Module -Name AzFilesHybrid 

     ） Important 

     This module requires the PowerShell Gallery and Azure PowerShell. You 

     may be prompted to install these if they are not already installed or they 

     need updating. If you are prompted for these, install them, then close all 

     instances of PowerShell. Re-open an elevated PowerShell prompt and 

     import the  AzFilesHybrid module again before continuing. 

6. Sign in to Azure by running the command below. You'll need to use an 

   account that has one of the following role-based access control (RBAC) roles: 

         Storage account owner 

         Owner 

         Contributor 

     PowerShell 

      Connect-AzAccount 

       Tip 

      If your Azure account has access to multiple tenants and/or subscriptions, 

     you will need to select the correct subscription by setting your context. 

      For more information, see Azure PowerShell context objects 

7. Join the storage account to your domain by running the commands below, 

   replacing the values for  $subscriptionId  $resourceGroupName,        , and 

   $storageAccountName with your values. You can also add the parameter  - 

   OrganizationalUnitDistinguishedName to specify an Organizational Unit (OU) in 

   which to place the computer account. 

     PowerShell 

      $subscriptionId = "subscription-id" 
      $resourceGroupName = "resource-group-name" 

----------------------- Page 93-----------------------

            $storageAccountName = "storage-account-name" 

            Join-AzStorageAccount ` 
               -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName ` 
               -StorageAccountName $StorageAccountName ` 
               -DomainAccountType "ComputerAccount" 

      8. To verify the storage account is joined to your domain, run the commands 

         below and review the output, replacing the values for  $resourceGroupName and 

         $storageAccountName with your values: 

           PowerShell 

            $resourceGroupName = "resource-group-name" 
            $storageAccountName = "storage-account-name" 

            (Get-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName -Name  
            $storageAccountName).AzureFilesIdentityBasedAuth.DirectoryServiceOp 
            tions; (Get-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $resourceGroupName  
            -Name  
            $storageAccountName).AzureFilesIdentityBasedAuth.ActiveDirectoryPro 
            perties 

     ） Important 

     If your domain enforces password expiration, you must update the password 

     before it expires to prevent authentication failures when accessing Azure file 

     shares. For more information, see Update the password of your storage 

     account identity in AD DS for details. 

Assign RBAC role to users 

Users needing to store profiles in your file share need permission to access it. To do this, 

you need to assign each user the Storage File Data SMB Share Contributor role. 

To assign users the role: 

    1. From the Azure portal, browse to the storage account, then to the file share you 

      created previously. 

    2. Select Access control (IAM). 

    3. Select + Add, then select Add role assignment from the drop-down menu. 

----------------------- Page 94-----------------------

   4. Select the role Storage File Data SMB Share Contributor and select  Next. 

   5. On the Members tab, select User, group, or service principal, then select  +Select 

      members. In the search bar, search for and select the security group that contains 

      the users who will use the profile container. 

   6. Select Review + assign to complete the assignment. 

Set NTFS permissions 

Next, you'll need to set NTFS permissions on the folder, which requires you to get the 

access key for your Storage account. 

To get the Storage account access key: 

   1. From the Azure portal, search for and select storage account in the search bar. 

   2. From the list of storage accounts, select the account that you enabled Active 

      Directory Domain Services or Microsoft Entra Domain Services as the identity 

      source and assigned the RBAC role for in the previous sections. 

   3. Under Security + networking, select Access keys, then show and copy the key 

      from key1. 

To set the correct NTFS permissions on the folder: 

   1. Sign in to a session host that is part of your host pool. 

   2. Open an elevated PowerShell prompt and run the command below to map the 

      storage account as a drive on your session host. The mapped drive won't show in 

      File Explorer, but can be viewed with the  net use command. This is so you can set 

      permissions on the share. 

        Windows Command  Prompt 

         net use <desired-drive-letter>: \\<storage-account- 
         name>.file.core.windows.net\<share-name> <storage-account-key>  
         /user:Azure\<storage-account-name> 

            Replace  <desired-drive-letter> with a drive letter of your choice (for 

            example,  y:). 

            Replace both instances of  <storage-account-name> with the name of the 

            storage account you specified earlier. 

            Replace  <share-name> with the name of the share you created earlier. 

----------------------- Page 95-----------------------

           Replace  <storage-account-key> with the storage account key from Azure. 

      For example: 

        Windows Command  Prompt 

        net use y: \\fsprofile.file.core.windows.net\share  
        HDZQRoFP2BBmoYQ(truncated)== /user:Azure\fsprofile 

   3. Run the following commands to set permissions on the share that allow your 

      Azure Virtual Desktop users to create their own profile while blocking access to the 

      profiles of other users. You should use an Active Directory security group that 

      contains the users you want to use the profile container. In the commands below, 

      replace  <mounted-drive-letter> with the letter of the drive you used to map the 

      drive and  <DOMAIN\GroupName> with the domain and sAMAccountName of the 

      Active Directory group that will require access to the share. You can also specify 

      the user principal name (UPN) of a user. 

        Windows Command  Prompt 

        icacls <mounted-drive-letter>: /grant "<DOMAIN\GroupName>:(M)" 
        icacls <mounted-drive-letter>: /grant "Creator Owner:(OI)(CI)(IO)(M)" 
        icacls <mounted-drive-letter>: /remove "Authenticated Users" 
        icacls <mounted-drive-letter>: /remove "Builtin\Users" 

      For example: 

        Windows Command  Prompt 

        icacls y: /grant "CONTOSO\AVDUsers:(M)" 
        icacls y: /grant "Creator Owner:(OI)(CI)(IO)(M)" 
        icacls y: /remove "Authenticated Users" 
        icacls y: /remove "Builtin\Users" 

Configure your local Windows device to use 
profile containers 

In order to use profile containers, you'll need to make sure FSLogix Apps is installed on 

your device. If you're configuring Azure Virtual Desktop, FSLogix Apps is preinstalled in 

Windows 10 Enterprise multi-session and Windows 11 Enterprise multi-session 

operating systems, but you should still follow the steps below as it might not have the 

----------------------- Page 96-----------------------

latest version installed. If you're using a custom image, you can install FSLogix Apps in 

your image. 

To configure profile containers, we recommend you use Group Policy Preferences to set 

registry keys and values at scale across all your session hosts. You can also set these in 

your custom image. 

To configure your local Windows device: 

    1. If you need to install or update FSLogix Apps, download the latest version of 

      FSLogix      and install it by running  FSLogixAppsSetup.exe, then following the 

      instructions in the setup wizard. For more details about the installation process, 

      including customizations and unattended installation, see Download and Install 

      FSLogix. 

    2. Open an elevated PowerShell prompt and run the following commands, replacing 

       \\<storage-account-name>.file.core.windows.net\<share-name> with the UNC path 

      to your storage account you created earlier. These commands enable the profile 

      container and configure the location of the share. 

         PowerShell 

         $regPath = "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\profiles" 
         New-ItemProperty -Path $regPath -Name Enabled -PropertyType DWORD - 
         Value 1 -Force 
         New-ItemProperty -Path $regPath -Name VHDLocations -PropertyType  
         MultiString -Value \\<storage-account-name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
         <share-name> -Force 

    3. Restart your device. You'll need to repeat these steps for any remaining devices. 

You have now finished the setting up your profile container. If you're installing the 

profile container in your custom image, you'll need to finish creating the custom image. 

For more information, follow the steps in Create a custom image in Azure from the 

section Take the final snapshot onwards. 

Validate profile creation 

Once you've installed and configured the profile container, you can test your 

deployment by signing in with a user account that's been assigned an application group 

or desktop on the host pool. 

If the user has signed in before, they'll have an existing local profile that they'll use 

during this session. Either delete the local profile first, or create a new user account to 

----------------------- Page 97-----------------------

use for tests. 

Users can check that the profile container is set up by following the steps below: 

    1. Sign in to Azure Virtual Desktop as the test user. 

   2. When the user signs in, the message "Please wait for the FSLogix Apps Services" 

      should appear as part of the sign-in process, before reaching the desktop. 

Administrators can check the profile folder has been created by following the steps 

below: 

    1. Open the Azure portal. 

   2. Open the storage account you created in previously. 

   3. Go to Data storage in your storage account, then select  File shares. 

   4. Open your file share and make sure the user profile folder you've created is in 

      there. 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?    Yes        No 

Provide product feedback 

----------------------- Page 98-----------------------

Configure profile containers using FSLogix 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage            . 

FSLogix profile containers are a complete roaming user profile solution for Windows desktop 

scenarios, such as Azure Virtual Desktop. Users can sign in to different devices and want their 

customization and personalization data roam to whichever device or session they connect to. 

A profile container (single container), redirects the entire Windows user profile into a virtual 

hard disk (VHD) stored on a storage provider. The most common storage provider is an SMB 

file share. For more information, see Container storage options. 

The profile container includes all Microsoft 365 application data and is inclusive of all the 

benefits and uses found in the ODFC container. If you configure a profile container, you don't 

need to configure an ODFC container. 

   ７ Note 

   Using the profile container in a single container configuration is recommended. 

   This article doesn't cover how to convert to/from single or dual containers. 

Prerequisites 

Before you can configure profile containers using FSLogix, you need: 

      Windows devices you want use with FSLogix, such as Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts. 

      You can use the Azure Virtual Desktop Quickstart to deploy a sample environment for 

      testing. 

----------------------- Page 99-----------------------

       An SMB file share with NTFS and share-level permissions correctly configured, or other 

       supported storage provider. 

       A user account on the local device with administrator privilege in order to configure the 

       registry. 

       The latest version of FSLogix downloaded and installed on the Windows device. 

       Review configuration options. 

Profile container configuration 

To configure your profile container: 

    1. Verify FSLogix installation and version. 

    2. Sign-in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account with 

       administrative privileges. 

    3. Open the Registry Editor and navigate to  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles. 

    4. Add the following settings: 

                                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

        Value Name                                    Data Type      Data        Description 

         Enabled                                      DWORD           1          Required 

         DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply         DWORD           1          Recommended to ensure user's 
                                                                                 don't use local profiles and lose 
                                                                                 data unexpectedly. 

         FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName                 DWORD           1          Recommended. Provides an 
                                                                                 easier way to browse the 
                                                                                 container directories. 

         LockedRetryCount                             DWORD          3           Recommended. Decreases the 
                                                                                 retry timing to enable a faster 
                                                                                 fail scenario. 

         LockedRetryInterval                          DWORD           15         Recommended. Decreases the 
                                                                                 retry timing to enable a faster 
                                                                                 fail scenario. 

         ProfileType                                  DWORD          0           Default. Single connections 
                                                                                 reduce complexity and increase 
                                                                                 performance. 

         ReAttachIntervalSeconds                      DWORD           15         Recommended. Decreases the 
                                                                                 retry timing to enable a faster 

----------------------- Page 100-----------------------

 Value Name                                 Data Type      Data       Description 

                                                                     fail scenario. 

  ReAttachRetryCount                        DWORD          3          Recommended. Decreases the 

                                                                      retry timing to enable a faster 
                                                                     fail scenario. 

  SizeInMBs                                 DWORD          30000      Default 

  VHDLocations                              MULTI_SZ       SMB        For example:  \\{windows-server- 
                                            or REG_SZ      Share     or-azure-files-fqdn}\{share- 
                                                           path      name} 

  VolumeType                                REG_SZ         VHDX       Recommended. VHDX is 
                                                                      preferred over VHD due to its 
                                                                     supported size and reduced 
                                                                     corruption scenarios. 

   ７ Note 

   These settings are used to configure a standard profile container. To view more 

   registry settings and configurations, see Configuration examples. 

You can use these PowerShell commands to add the registry settings: 

  PowerShell 

  $VHDLocations = "\\{windows-server-or-azure-files-fqdn}\{share-name}" 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name Enabled - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply -PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName -PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name LockedRetryCount  
  -PropertyType dword -Value 3 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  LockedRetryInterval -PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name ProfileType - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 0 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  ReAttachIntervalSeconds -PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  ReAttachRetryCount -PropertyType dword -Value 3 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name SizeInMBs - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 30000 -Force 
  New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name VHDLocations - 
  PropertyType string -value $VHDLocations -Force 

----------------------- Page 101-----------------------

        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name VolumeType - 
        PropertyType string -Value vhdx -Force 

Verify your profile container configuration 

Once you configure the Windows device to use FSLogix profile containers, you can verify the 

configuration by following these steps: 

   1. Sign in as a standard user. 

   2. Right click the Start icon and select the Terminal app 

   3. Navigate to the FSLogix apps directory by running the following command: 

        PowerShell 

        cd "C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps" 

   4. Run the following command to list each redirect: 

        PowerShell 

        .\frx.exe list-redirects 

      Here's an example of the output of the command: 

        Output 

        Active redirections 
        ------------------- 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso => \Device\HarddiskVolume9\Profile 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Protect =>  
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\local_contoso\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Protect 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Credentials =>  
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\local_contoso\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Credenti 
        als 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Credentials =>  
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\local_contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Credential 
        s 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Offi 
        ceFileCache =>  
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\local_contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16. 
        0\OfficeFileCache 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\OneDriveTemp\S-1-5-21-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 
        0000000 => \Device\HarddiskVolume9\ODTemp 
        \Device\HarddiskVolume4\$RECYCLE.BIN\S-1-5-21-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 

----------------------- Page 102-----------------------

        0000000 => \Device\HarddiskVolume9\PROFILE_RECYCLE.BIN 
        Operation completed successfully! 

   5. Open File Explorer and open the full path you set for  VHDLocations in the registry. 

   6. Double-click the folder for the standard user. 

   7. Locate the newly created VHDX container. 

Related content 

Learn more about how to use FSLogix: 

      Configuration examples 

      Configure profile containers with Cloud Cache 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 103-----------------------

Tutorial: Configure profile containers with 
Cloud Cache 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the default 

   Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have access issues after 

   this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to AES-SHA1 before installing the 

   update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos hardening (RC4) may 

   affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

In this tutorial, you learn how to configure profile containers with Cloud Cache. 

Cloud Cache is an optional type of configuration for profile or Office Data and Files Container (ODFC) 

containers. The primary function of Cloud Cache is to mitigate short-term or intermittent connectivity 

problems with the remote storage providers. Before you follow this tutorial, be sure to review the Cloud 

Cache overview along with the various configuration settings. 

This tutorial depicts a Cloud Cache configuration for a profile container only. Cloud Cache with an ODFC 

container is supported and is configured similarly as shown in the ODFC tutorial. Replace VHDLocations with 

CCDLocations because Cloud Cache uses  CCDLocations instead of  VHDLocations. Don't use both settings. 

In this tutorial, you: 

 ＂   Enable the product for profiles. 

 ＂   Specify the Cloud Cache locations for the containers. 

 ＂  Verify that the container is attached and working. 

Prerequisites 

      Have a successful deployment of a virtual desktop or Azure Virtual Desktop environment. 

      Have a Server Message Block (SMB) file share with New Technology File System (NTFS) and share-level 

      permissions correctly configured. 

      Create an Azure page blob storage account. 

      Download and install the latest version of FSLogix. 

      Review configuration options. 

      Have an Azure page blob connection string stored in a credential manager by using the frx command- 

      line utility. 

Configure a profile container with Cloud Cache 

----------------------- Page 104-----------------------

All Microsoft 365 application data is included, so there's no need for an ODFC container. 

    1. Verify the FSLogix installation and version. 

    2. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account that has administrative 

       privileges. 

    3. Select Start. 

    4. Enter registry editor in the Start menu search box. 

    5. Select Registry Editor on the Start menu. 

                                                                                                                             

       Figure 1: Registry Editor on the Start menu 

    6. Go to  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles. 

    7. Add these settings: 

                                                                                                               ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 105-----------------------

      Key name                                        Data          Value                                               Description 
                                                      type 

      CCDLocations                                     MULTI_SZ      type=smb,name="WINDOWS SMB                         Example 
                                                      or            PROVIDER",connectionString=\\<server- 
                                                       REG_SZ       name>\<share-name>;type=azure,name="AZURE 

                                                                    PROVIDER",connectionString="|fslogix/<key- 

                                                                    name>|" 

      ClearCacheOnLogoff1                              DWORD         1                                                  Recommended 

      Enabled                                          DWORD        1                                                   REQUIRED 

      DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2            DWORD         1                                                  Recommended 

      FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                    DWORD         1                                                  Recommended 

      HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4             DWORD         1                                                  Recommended 

      LockedRetryCount5                                DWORD         3                                                  Recommended 

      LockedRetryInterval5                             DWORD        15                                                  Recommended 

      ProfileType6                                     DWORD         0                                                  Default 

      ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                         DWORD        15                                                  Recommended 

      ReAttachRetryCount5                              DWORD         3                                                  Recommended 

      SizeInMBs                                        DWORD        30000                                               Default 

      VolumeType7                                      REG_SZ       VHDX                                                Recommended 

    1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

    2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

    3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

    4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

    5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

    6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

    7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

                                                                                                                               

    Figure 2: Cloud Cache registry entries 

PowerShell 

----------------------- Page 106-----------------------

      $CCDLocations =  'type=smb,name="AZURE FILES PROVIDER",connectionString=\\<STORAGE-ACCOUNT- 
  NAME>.file.core.windows.net\<SHARE-NAME>;type=azure,name="AZURE BLOB  
  PROVIDER",connectionString="|fslogix/<KEY-NAME>|"' 

      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name CCDLocations -PropertyType  
  string -value $CCDLocations -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name ClearCacheOnLogoff - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name Enabled -PropertyType dword - 
  Value 1 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply -PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name  
  HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister -PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name LockedRetryCount -PropertyType  
  dword -Value 3 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name LockedRetryInterval - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name ProfileType -PropertyType dword  
  -Value 0 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name ReAttachRetryCount - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 3 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name ReAttachIntervalSeconds - 
  PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name SizeInMBs -PropertyType dword - 
  Value 30000 -Force 
      New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ -Name VolumeType -PropertyType string  
  -Value vhdx -Force 

Verify your Cloud Cache profile container configuration 

Cloud Cache creates and mounts a local container (local cache) for the user's profile. Verifying your Cloud 

Cache configuration requires reviewing the Windows Event Viewer, File Explorer, or the FSLogix profile logs. 

The steps in this procedure show Windows Event Viewer and File Explorer. 

    1. Select Start. 

   2. Enter event viewer in the Start menu search box. 

   3. Select Event Viewer on the Start menu. 

----------------------- Page 107-----------------------

   Figure 3: Event Viewer on the Start menu 

4. Expand Applications and Services Logs. 

5. Expand Microsoft. 

6. Expand FSLogix. 

7. Expand CloudCache. 

8. Select Operational. 

----------------------- Page 108-----------------------

   Figure 4: Windows Event Viewer 

9. Look for Event ID: 56 that shows which providers are online. 

----------------------- Page 109-----------------------

     Figure 5: Event ID 56 - Providers online 

10. Look for Event ID: 5 that shows the lock on the proxy file. 

----------------------- Page 110-----------------------

                                                                                                              

    Figure 6: Event ID 5 - Proxy lock 

11. Select Start. 

12. Select File Explorer. 

13. Go to C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache%username%_%sid%. 

                                                                                                                   

    Figure 7: File Explorer - local cache 

----------------------- Page 111-----------------------

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 112-----------------------

Configure ODFC containers 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

FSLogix ODFC containers are a subset to the  profile container and are used to redirect specific 

Microsoft 365 app data into a VHD stored on a storage provider. The most common storage 

provider is an SMB file share. 

All benefits of the ODFC container are automatic when using profile containers in a single 

container configuration. There's no need or benefit to using the ODFC container when profile 

containers are your primary profile management solution. ODFC containers can optionally be 

used in with profile containers in a dual container configuration, to place Microsoft 365 app 

data in a different VHD from the rest of the profile data. 

When pairing the ODFC container with third party roaming profile solutions, ensure to exclude 

the paths in the profile managed by the ODFC container. The paths to exclude depend on the 

ODFC configuration settings. 

If you've already configured a profile container, you don't need to configure an ODFC 

container. Profile containers are inclusive of all the benefits and uses found in ODFC containers. 

  ） Important 

        Using the ODFC container in a single container configuration is recommended with 

        third party roaming profile solutions. 

        Using the ODFC container in a dual container configuration isn't necessary or 

        recommended. 

----------------------- Page 113-----------------------

Prerequisites 

Before you can configure ODFC containers, you need: 

      Windows devices you want use with FSLogix, such as Azure Virtual Desktop session hosts. 

      You can use the Azure Virtual Desktop Quickstart to deploy a sample environment for 

      testing. An SMB file share with NTFS and share-level permissions correctly configured, or 

      other supported storage provider. 

      A user account on the local device with administrator privilege in order to configure the 

      registry. 

      The latest version of FSLogix downloaded and installed on the Windows device. 

       Review configuration options. 

      Completed profile container configuration tutorial. 

ODFC container configuration 

To configure your ODFC container: 

    1. Verify FSLogix installation and version. 

    2. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account with 

      administrative privileges. 

    3. Open the Registry Editor and navigate to 

       HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC . 

    4. Add the following settings: 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

        Value Name                        Data Type     Data       Description 

        Enabled                           DWORD         1          Required 

        FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName      DWORD         1          Recommended. Provides an easier way to 
                                                                   browse the container directories. 

        IncludeTeams                      DWORD         1          Recommended. Ensures Microsoft Teams 
                                                                   data is kept in the container for optimal 
                                                                   performance. 

        LockedRetryCount                  DWORD         3          Recommended. Decreases the retry 
                                                                   timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

        LockedRetryInterval               DWORD         15         Recommended. Decreases the retry 

----------------------- Page 114-----------------------

        Value Name                       Data Type     Data       Description 

                                                                 timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

        ReAttachIntervalSeconds          DWORD         15         Recommended. Decreases the retry 

                                                                 timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

        ReAttachRetryCount               DWORD         3          Recommended. Decreases the retry 

                                                                 timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

        SizeInMBs                        DWORD         30000      Default 

        VHDLocations                     MULTI_SZ      SMB        For example:  \\<storage-account- 
                                         or REG_SZ     Share      name>.file.core.windows.net\<share- 
                                                       path       name> 

        VolumeType                       REG_SZ        VHDX       Recommended. VHDX is preferred over 
                                                                 VHD due to its supported size and 
                                                                  reduced corruption scenarios. 

      You can use these PowerShell commands to add the registry settings: 

        PowerShell 

        $VHDLocations = "\\<STORAGE-ACCOUNT-NAME>.file.core.windows.net\<SHARE-NAME>" 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name Enabled - 
        PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name  
         FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName -PropertyType dword -Value 1 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name LockedRetryCount - 
        PropertyType dword -Value 3 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name LockedRetryInterval  
         -PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name  
        ReAttachIntervalSeconds -PropertyType dword -Value 15 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name ReAttachRetryCount - 
        PropertyType dword -Value 3 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name SizeInMBs - 
        PropertyType dword -Value 30000 -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name VHDLocations - 
        PropertyType string -value $VHDLocations -Force 
        New-ItemProperty -Path HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\ODFC\ -Name VolumeType - 
        PropertyType string -Value vhdx -Force 

Verify your ODFC container configuration 

Once you configure the Windows device to use ODFC containers, you can verify the 

configuration by following these steps: 

    1. Sign in as a standard user. 

----------------------- Page 115-----------------------

2. Open the Command Prompt and change the directory by running the following 

   command: 

    Windows Command Prompt 

    C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps 

3. Run the following command to list each redirect: 

    Windows Command Prompt 

    `frx list-redirects` 

   Here's an example of the output of the command: 

    Output 

    Active redirections 
     ------------------- 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\$RECYCLE.BIN\S-1-5-21-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 
    0000000 => \Device\HarddiskVolume6\ODFC_RECYCLE.BIN 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Outlook =>  
    \Device\HarddiskVolume6\ODFC 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Outlook =>  
    \Device\HarddiskVolume6\ODFCPersonalization 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive =>  
    \Device\HarddiskVolume6\OneDrive\UserMeta 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\OneDriveTemp\S-1-5-21-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 
    0000000 => \Device\HarddiskVolume6\OneDrive\ODTemp 
      
    \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Lice 
    nsing => \Device\HarddiskVolume6\OfficeLicensing 
      
    \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\15.0\Lync  
    => \Device\HarddiskVolume6\Skype4B_15\User 
      
    \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Lync  
    => \Device\HarddiskVolume6\Skype4B\User 
     \Device\HarddiskVolume4\Users\contoso\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams =>  
    \Device\HarddiskVolume6\Teams\data 
     Operation completed successfully! 

4. Open File Explorer and open the full path you set for  VHDLocations in the registry. 

5. Double-click the folder for the standard user. 

6. Locate the newly created profile and ODFC VHDX containers. 

----------------------- Page 116-----------------------

Exclusions for third party roaming profiles 

When pairing the ODFC container with a third party roaming profile solution, the folders 

managed by the ODFC container should NOT be roamed by the third party provider. The 

folders to exclude depend on which settings are enabled. 

                                                                                             ﾉ   Expand table 

  ODFC configuration setting         Exclusion path                                                      Type 

  IncludeOfficeActivation            %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Licensing         Default 

  IncludeOneDrive                    %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive                      Default 

  IncludeOneNote                     %userprofile%\Documents\OneNote Notebooks                           Optional 

                                     %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneNote 

  IncludeOneNote_UWP                 %userprofile%\Microsoft                                             Optional 

  IncludeOutlook                     %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Outlook                       Default 

  IncludeOutlookPersonalization      %userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Outlook                     Default 

  IncludeSharepoint                                                                                      Default 

  IncludeSkype                       %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\15.0\Lync              Default 

                                     \AppData\Local\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Lync 

  IncludeTeams                       classic Teams                                                       Optional 

                                     %userprofile%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams 

                                     %userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams 

                                     new Teams 

                                     %LocalAppData%\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache 

Related content 

Learn more about how to use FSLogix: 

      Configuration examples 

      Configure profile containers with Cloud Cache 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 117-----------------------

Tutorial: Create and implement 
redirections.xml 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage            . 

In this tutorial, you learn how to create and implement redirections.xml. 

Using non-Microsoft redirections.xml files can exclude items that can affect proper operation 

of the operating system or applications in your environment. Use exclude and include 

statements sparingly. 

FSLogix redirections.xml provides functionality that allows some parts of a user's profile to be 

excluded from a user's container. This tutorial provides you with the steps to create your own 

.xml file to exclude the recommended Microsoft Teams folders. 

In this tutorial, you: 

 ＂   Exclude recommended Microsoft Teams folders for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure 

     (VDI). 

 ＂  Verify that the .xml file was copied from the source folder. 

 ＂  Verify that the folders were excluded. 

Prerequisites 

      Review Classic Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure. 

      Review Upgrade to new Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure. 

Create the redirections.xml file 

----------------------- Page 118-----------------------

1. Select Start. 

2. Enter notepad in the Start menu search box. 

3. Select Notepad on the Start menu. 

   Figure 1: Notepad on the Start menu 

4. Copy the .xml outline to Notepad. 

   You can find information on  ExcludeCommonFolder in the Custom profile redirections.xml 

   article. 

     XML 

     <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> 
     <FrxProfileFolderRedirection ExcludeCommonFolders="0"> 
     <Excludes> 
     <Exclude Copy="0">AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack</Exclude> 
     <Exclude Copy="0">AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams\meeting-addin\Cache</Exclude> 

----------------------- Page 119-----------------------

        <Exclude  
        Copy="0">AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MST 
        eams\Logs</Exclude> 
        <Exclude  
        Copy="0">AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MST 
        eams\PerfLogs</Exclude> 
        <Exclude  
        Copy="0">AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MST 
        eams\EBWebView\WV2Profile_tfw\WebStorage</Exclude> 
        </Excludes> 
        <Includes> 
        </Includes> 
        </FrxProfileFolderRedirection> 

   5. Select File > Save As. 

   6. Go to the file share where the .xml file source is saved. 

                              1 
   7. Enter redirections.xml  for the file name. 

   8. Select All Files (.) for the Save As type. 

   9. Select Save. 

  ７ Note 

   Users require read access to the file share where the .xml file is stored. Users without read 

   access can't copy the .xml file during sign-in. 

Configure redirections.xml on the virtual machine 

   1. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local administrator or with an account that's a member 

      of the local administrators group. 

   2. Enter registry editor in the search box. 

   3. Select Registry Editor on the Start menu. 

----------------------- Page 120-----------------------

   Figure 2: Registry Editor on the Start menu 

4. Go to  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles. 

5. Add these settings: 

          Value name:  RedirXMLSourceFolder 

          Value type:  REG_SZ 

                                                        2 
          Value:  \\<server-name>\<share-name> 

----------------------- Page 121-----------------------

      Figure 3: Registry profiles 

Verify redirections.xml is copied and excluding 
folders 

    1. Go to C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs\Profile. 

   2. Open  Profile-%date%.log . 

    3. Find the section that starts with  [INFO] ===== Begin Session: StartShell. 

   4. If the redirections.xml file was successful, the log should be similar to the logs shown 

      here: 

        text 

        [23:36:31.364][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Configuration Read  
        (REG_SZ): SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\RedirXMLSourceFolder.  Data: \\<stg- 
        acct>.file.core.windows.net\containers 
        [23:36:31.364][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Attempting to copy:  
        "\\<stg-acct>.file.core.windows.net\containers\Redirections.xml" to:  
        "C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\FSLogix\Redirections.xml" 
        [23:36:31.396][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Redirections.xml copy  
        success 
        [23:36:31.396][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Reading profile folder  
        redirections 
        [23:36:31.411][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folders  
        for profile folder redirections 
        [23:36:31.411][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folder  
         'AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack\' 
        [23:36:31.427][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folder  
         'AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams\meeting-addin\Cache\' 
        [23:36:31.427][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folder  

----------------------- Page 122-----------------------

        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\Log 
        s\' 
        [23:36:31.427][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folder  
        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\Per 
        fLogs' 
        [23:36:31.427][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Creating base folder  
        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\EBW 
        ebView\WV2Profile_tfw\WebStorage' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Adding exclude rule  
        for folder 'AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack\' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Added redirection  
        C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack ->  
        C:\Users\local_%username%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Teams\media-stack 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Adding exclude rule  
        for folder 'AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams\meeting-addin\Cache\' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Added redirection  
        C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams\meeting-addin\Cache ->  
        C:\Users\local_%username%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Teams\meeting-addin\Cache 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Adding exclude rule  
        for folder  
        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\Log 
        s\' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Added redirection  
        C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Mi 
        crosoft\MSTeams\Logs ->  
        C:\Users\local_%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCa 
        che\Microsoft\MSTeams\Logs 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Adding exclude rule  
        for folder  
        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\Per 
        fLogs\' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Added redirection  
        C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Mi 
        crosoft\MSTeams\PerfLogs ->  
        C:\Users\local_%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCa 
        che\Microsoft\MSTeams\PerfLogs 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Adding exclude rule  
        for folder  
        'AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Microsoft\MSTeams\EBW 
        ebView\WV2Profile_tfw\WebStorage\' 
        [23:36:32.099][tid:00000f10.00003bdc][INFO]             Added redirection  
        C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache\Mi 
        crosoft\MSTeams\EBWebView\WV2Profile_tfw\WebStorage ->  
        C:\Users\local_%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCa 
        che\Microsoft\MSTeams\EBWebView\WV2Profile_tfw\WebStorage 

1 The file name isn't case sensitive. 

2 Don't include the file name. The path could also be a local path if the .xml file is part of a gold image. 

Next step 

----------------------- Page 123-----------------------

 Custom profile redirections.xml 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 124-----------------------

Tutorial: Create and Implement Rule Sets 
(Application Masking) 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

This tutorial provides step-by-step instructions for creating and implementing an application 

hiding Rule Set, which "hides" the Google Chrome browser for specific users. 

Learn how to 

 ＂   Create your first Rule Set 

 ＂  Test your hiding rules 

 ＂   Create assignments for your Rule Set 

 ＂   Deploy your Rule Set 

Prerequisites 

      Download and install: 

         FSLogix Apps (Core Product) 

         FSLogix Apps Rule Editor 

      Install Google Chrome 

Create your first Rule Set 

   1. Open the FSlogix Rules Editor. 

         Tip 

----------------------- Page 125-----------------------

      If you plan to test this Rule Set in the next section, open the FSLogix Rules Editor as 

      Administrator. 

   Figure 1: Create new Rule Set 

2. Select File -> New to create a new Rule Set. 

3. Enter the name, Google_Chrome. 

4. Select Enter file name to create the Rule Set and open the rule wizard dialog. 

----------------------- Page 126-----------------------

   Figure 2: New Rule Set 

5. Select Choose from installed programs:. 

6. select Google Chrome. 

7. Select Scan. 

----------------------- Page 127-----------------------

   Figure 3: Rule Set Wizard 

      ７ Note 

      This will scan the system for all relevant items for the application and include them 

      as hiding rules. 

8. When complete, the Scan button changes. Select OK to display the automatic hiding 

   rules. 

----------------------- Page 128-----------------------

   Figure 4: Application scan complete 

9. The Rule Editor now displays all the items to be hidden that are related to Google 

   Chrome and you've created your first Rule Set. 

   Figure 5: Rule Set rules 

----------------------- Page 129-----------------------

The Rule Editor automatically saves the Rule Set file once the rules have been added. 

Test your hiding rules 

Testing your hiding rules on the system where the rules were created is one way to validate the 

rules work as intended. Check out the Configuring FSLogix Apps Rule Sets page for an in-depth 

guide. 

To test the hiding rules: 

    1. Be sure the Google_Chrome Rule Set is selected in the left pane. 

    2. From the action bar, select Apply Rules to System. 

            This action immediately applies these rules and you should no longer be able to see 

            or open Google Chrome. 

      Figure 6: Rule Set Rules 

    3. When complete, select Apply Rules to System again and the rules no longer apply. 

            Google Chrome should reappear and can be opened. 

Create assignments for your Rule Set 

----------------------- Page 130-----------------------

Rule Set Assignments specify how and to whom the Rules in the Rule Set apply. 

To create the assignments: 

    1. Be sure the Google_Chrome Rule Set is selected in the left pane. 

    2. From the action bar, select Manage Assignments. 

       Figure 7: Manage Assignments 

    3. Select Add. 

    4. Select Group. 

----------------------- Page 131-----------------------

   Figure 8: Add Assignments 

5. The Select Group dialog box appears. 

6. Select the 'Person' icon to the right of the Group textbox. 

   Figure 9: Select Assignments 

7. Type 'Domain Users' and select OK. 

----------------------- Page 132-----------------------

   Figure 10: AD Group 

8. The Assignments window now shows: 

          'Every one', Applies 'No' 

          'CONTOSO\Domain Users', Applies 'Yes' 

   Figure 11: Assignments 

9. Select OK and you've successfully created an assignment for your Rule Set. 

----------------------- Page 133-----------------------

Deploy Rule Sets 

FSLogix Rule Sets are saved as two (2) separate files: 

      Assignment file (.fxa) 

      Rule File (.fxr) 

Rule Set files should be copied to the virtual machine. Copy the files to  C:\Program 

Files\FSLogix\Apps\Rules. Once the files are copied to this location, the FSLogix Apps Services 

uses them immediately. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 134-----------------------

Create Java Rule Sets (retired) 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

   ） Important 

   The Java Rule sets are retired as of February 11, 2025 and are no longer supported. Review 

   the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

Java Version Control allows specific websites and URLs to be assigned to a specific installed 

version of Java. You can create Rule Sets to configure an application or URL to use a specific 

version of Java. Rules are deployed using the same process as the FSLogix Apps Rule Editor. 

Prerequisites 

      Download and install: 

         FSLogix Apps (Core Product). 

         FSLogix Apps Java Rule Editor (retired). 

      Internet Explorer (IE) 8 and later is supported. 

      Applications must run in Internet Explorer (IE) 7 or later. 

      Java 1.6.0_10 or later is supported. 

      Java 1.4.2 and later is supported for redirection. 

      Microsoft Edge or Chromium-based browsers aren't supported. 

   ７ Note 

   If rules are changed, restart the Internet Explorer instances for the modified to rules. 

----------------------- Page 135-----------------------

   Issue: ActiveX blocking feature of IE may cause applets to stop responding when using 

   Java Version Control. Add the domain containing the applet URL to the Trusted Sites list in 

   Internet Explorer as a workaround. 

Create a new Application Rule Set 

    1. Open the Java Rule Editor. 

      Figure 1: Java RuleEditor 

    2. In the Java Rule Editor, select Edit, then Add. 

    3. Select Application as the Type. 

   4. Specify the location of the executable. 

----------------------- Page 136-----------------------

      Figure 2: Java RuleEditor - New Application 

    5. Select File, then Save the Java Project File. 

    6. Select File, then Generate to generate the Java Rule Files. 

    7. Two (2) files are created, one (1) Rule Set file (.fxr) and one (1) Assignment file (.fxa). 

    8. Deploy the files, see Deploying Rule Sets and Assignment Files. 

Create a new URL Rule Set 

    1. Open the Java Rule Editor. 

----------------------- Page 137-----------------------

    Figure 3: Java RuleEditor 

 2. In the Java Rule Editor, select Edit, then Add. 

 3. Select URL as the Type. 

 4. Specify the URL (absolute or using wildcards). 

          Protocol may be  http  https,       , or  *. *   matches http or https. As an example 

           *://contoso.com matches  http://contoso.com and  https://contoso.com . 

          Sub-Domains may be specified as  *.. As an example  https://*.contoso.com 

          matches  www.contoso.com  test.contoso.com,             and  contoso.com . 

          Path  * matches full URL under where  * is specified. As an example, 

           https://contoso.com/* matches the entire domain and  https://contoso.com/app/* 

          matches everything in the path under app. 

 5. Specify the version of Java to use from the drop-down (for example, 1.6.0_45). 

    Figure 4: Java RuleEditor - New URL 

 6. Select File, then Save the Java Project File. 

 7. Select File, then Generate to generate the Java Rule Files. 

 8. An XML file is created. 

 9. Deploy the file, see  Deploying Rule Sets and Assignment Files. 

７ Note 

       If the latest version of Java is selected in the Java Version Field, The Java Version 

       control and associated features are effectively disabled for the given URL. 

       The selected Java version must be installed on the client computer or the rule won't 

       work. Multiple versions of Java can be installed side-by-side. Major Java versions 

----------------------- Page 138-----------------------

        won't conflict with each other, as each installs to a unique directory. However, Java 

        versions that are the same major version but different minor versions install into the 

        same directory by default. You can simply change the path during the installation to 

        avoid this problem. 

        In almost all cases, the 32-bit versions of Java should be used. Typically only if there 

        are specific instructions to use 64-bit Java should it be tested before the 32-bit 

        versions. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 139-----------------------

Configure SMB Storage Permissions 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

FSLogix works with SMB storage systems to store Profile or ODFC containers. SMB storage is 

used in standard configurations where VHDLocations holds the UNC path to the storage 

locations. SMB storage providers can also be used in Cloud Cache configurations where 

CCDLocations is used instead of VHDLocations. 

SMB storage permissions rely on traditional NTFS Access Control Lists (ACL) applied at file or 

folder levels to ensure the proper security of the data that is stored. When used with Azure 

Files, you must enable an Active Directory (AD) source, then assign share-level permissions to 

the resource. There are two ways you can assign share-level permissions. You can assign them 

to specific Entra ID users/groups, and you can assign them to all authenticated identities as a 

default share-level permission. 

Before you begin 

Before configuring SMB storage permissions, you must first have the SMB storage provider 

created and properly associated with the correct identity authority for your organization and 

type of storage provider. 

  ） Important 

  You must understand the processes required to use Azure Files or Azure NetApp Files for 

   SMB storage in your environment. 

Azure Files 

----------------------- Page 140-----------------------

The outline provides the initial concepts necessary when using Azure Files as your SMB Storage 

provider. Regardless of the Active Directory configuration selected, it's recommended to 

configure the default share-level permission using Storage File Data SMB Share Contributor, 

which is assigned to all authenticated identities. To be able to set the Windows ACL(s), ensure 

you assign share-level permissions for specific Entra ID users or groups with the Storage File 

Data SMB Share Elevated Contributor role and reviewed Configure directory and file-level 

permissions over SMB. 

    1. Create an SMB Azure file share. 

             Enable AD DS authentication for Azure file shares 

             Enable Azure Active Directory Domain Services authentication on Azure Files 

             Enable Azure Active Directory Kerberos authentication for hybrid identities on Azure 

             Files 

Azure NetApp Files 

Azure NetApp Files relies solely on Windows ACL(s). 

    1. Create a NetApp account. 

    2. Understand guidelines for Active Directory Domain Services site design and planning for 

      Azure NetApp Files. 

    3. Create a capacity pool for Azure NetApp Files. 

    4. Create an SMB volume for Azure NetApp Files. 

Configure Windows ACL(s) 

Windows ACL(s) are important to configure correctly so that only the user (CREATOR OWNER) 

has access to their profile directory or VHD(x) file. Additionally, you need to ensure any other 

administrative groups have 'Full Control' from an operational perspective. This concept is 

known as user-based access and is the recommended configuration. 

Any SMB file share has a default set of ACL(s). These examples are the three (3) most common 

types of SMB file shares and their default ACL(s). 

                                                                                          ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 141-----------------------

                                                               
                                                                                                        

         File Server ACL(s)              Azure Files Share ACL(s)             Azure NetApp Files ACL(s) 

   ） Important 

   Applying ACL(s) to Azure File Shares may require one (1) of two (2) methods: 

       1. Provide a user or group with Storage File Data SMB Share Elevated Contributor role 

         at the Storage Account or File Share Access Control (IAM). 

      2. Mount the file share using the Storage Account key. 

   Because there are access checks at two levels (the share level and the file/directory level), 

   applying ACL(s) is restricted. Only users who have the Storage File Data SMB Share 

   Elevated Contributor role can assign permissions on the file share root or other files or 

   directories without using the storage account key. All other file/directory permission 

   assignment requires connecting to the share using the storage account key first. 

Recommended ACL(s) 

The table outlines the recommended ACL(s) to be configured. 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Principal               Access         Applies to          Description 

  CREATOR OWNER           Modify         Subfolders and      Ensures the profile directory created by the user 
                          (Read /        files only          has the correct permissions only for that user. 
                          Write) 

  CONTOSO\Domain          Full Control   This folder,        Replace with your organizations group used for 
 Admins                                  subfolders and      administrative purposes. 
                                         files 

  CONTOSO\Domain          Modify         This folder only    Enables authorized users to create their profile 
  Users                   (Read /                            directory. Replace with organizational users 
                          Write)                             who need access to create profiles. 

----------------------- Page 142-----------------------

Apply Windows ACL(s) using icacls 

Use the following Windows command to set up the recommended permissions to all 

directories and files under the file share, including the root directory. 

   ７ Note 

   Remember to replace the placeholder values in the example with your own values. 

  Console 

  icacls \\contosoanf-1408.contoso.com\fsl-profiles /inheritance:r 
  icacls \\contosoanf-1408.contoso.com\fsl-profiles /grant:r "CREATOR OWNER":(OI)(CI) 
  (IO)(M) 
  icacls \\contosoanf-1408.contoso.com\fsl-profiles /grant:r "CONTOSO\Domain Admins": 
  (OI)(CI)(F) 
  icacls \\contosoanf-1408.contoso.com\fsl-profiles /grant:r "CONTOSO\Domain Users": 
  (M) 

For more information on how to use icacls to set Windows ACL(s) and on the different types of 

supported permissions, see the command-line reference for icacls. 

Apply Windows ACL(s) using Windows Explorer 

Use Windows File Explorer to apply the recommended permissions to all directories and files 

under the file share, including the root directory. 

    1. Open Windows File Explorer to the root of the file share. 

   2. Right-click in the open area on the right pane and select  Properties. 

   3. Select the Security tab. 

   4. Select Advanced. 

    5. Select Disable inheritance. 

         ７ Note 

         If prompted, removed inherited permissions instead of copying 

   6. Select Add. 

   7. Select 'Select a principal'. 

----------------------- Page 143-----------------------

   8. Type "CREATOR OWNER" and Select Check Name, then OK. 

   9. For 'Applies t o:', Select 'Subfolders and files only'. 

  10. For 'Basic permissions:', Select 'Modify'. 

  11. Select OK. 

  12. Repeat steps 6 - 11 based on the recommended ACL(s). 

  13. Select OK and OK again to finish applying the permissions. 

Apply Windows ACL(s) using SIDDirSDDL configuration 

Alternatively, FSLogix provides a configuration setting that sets the Windows ACL(s) on the 

directory during the creation process. The SIDDirSDDL configuration setting accepts an SDDL 

string that defines the ACL(s) to apply to the directory upon its creation. 

Create your SDDL string 

    1. Create a 'Test' folder on the SMB file share. 

----------------------- Page 144-----------------------

2. Modify the permissions to match your organization. 

3. Open a PowerShell Terminal. 

4. Type  Get-Acl -Path \\contosoanf-1408.contoso.com\fsl-profiles\Test  | Select-Object 

   Sddl. 

----------------------- Page 145-----------------------

  5. Copy the output to Notepad. 

  6. Replace  O:BAG with  O:%sid%  (Sets the user's SID as the folder owner). 

  7. Replace  (A;OICIIO;0x1301bf;;;CO) with  (A;OICIIO;0x1301bf;;;%sid%) (Gives the user's SID 

     modify r ights to all items). 

  8. In your FSLogix configuration, apply the SIDDirSDDL setting. 

           Value Name: SIDDirSDDL 

           Value Type: REG_SZ 

           Value:  O:%sid%G:DUD:PAI(A;OICIIO;0x1301bf;;;%sid%)(A;OICI;FA;;;SY) 

            (A;OICI;FA;;;S-1-5-21-3260294598-3507968424-1365985680-2602) 

  9. When user's sign-in for the first time, their directory is created with these permissions. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 146-----------------------

Protect Azure page blob connection string 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

Azure page blobs are used in a Cloud Cache configuration for  profile or ODFC containers. 

Cloud Cache connects to the blob using the HTTPS protocol over REST API. This connection 

requires the storage accounts access key formatted into a connection string. With this 

connection string, the entire storage account can be accessed. Knowledge of this information 

exposes a security risk that must be considered. 

FSLogix protects this information by adding it to the virtual machines Credential Manager store 

using the frx command-line utility. 

Prerequisites 

 ＂   Create an Azure page blob storage account. 

 ＂   Install and import Azure PowerShell modules. 

 ＂   Download and install the latest version of FSLogix. 

 ＂   Review: frx command-line utility reference 

Find Azure page blob storage account connection 
string 

    1. Select Start. 

   2. Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

   3. Select Run as administrator from the Start Menu. 

----------------------- Page 147-----------------------

4. Sign in to Azure. 

    Azure PowerShell 

    Connect-AzAccount 

5. Change to your Azure context to your subscription containing the storage account. 

    Azure PowerShell 

    Set-AzContext -Subscription <subscription name or id> 

6. Get the connection string for your storage account. 

    Azure PowerShell 

    $ResourceGroupName = "<resource-group-name>" 
    $StorageAccountName = "<storage-account-name>" 
    $StorageAccount = Get-AzStorageAccount -ResourceGroupName $ResourceGroupName - 

----------------------- Page 148-----------------------

        Name $StorageAccountName 
        $ConnectionString = $StorageAccount.Context.ConnectionString 

Add Azure page blob connection string to 
Credential Manager 

   1. Use the same PowerShell session from Find Azure page blob storage account connection 

      string. 

   2. Use the frx command add-secure-key to add the connection string to Credential 

      Manager. 

        PowerShell 

        & "C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\frx.exe" add-secure-key -key <custom-key- 
        name> -value $ConnectionString 

   3. Use the frx command list-secure-key to validate it was added successfully. 

        PowerShell 

        & "C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\frx.exe" list-secure-key 

Use the secure key in  CCDLocations 

----------------------- Page 149-----------------------

Cloud Cache uses the CCDLocations to retrieve the list of storage providers. The string used to 

specify the Azure page blob must follow a specific format. 

       type=azure,name=<optional-name>,connectionString="|fslogix/<key-name>|" 

The key stored in Credential Manager must be reference using  |fslogix/<key-name>| where 

any part of the connection string could be replaced with a secure key created using the frx 

command-line utility. 

Delete Azure page blob connection string from 
Credential Manager 

    1. Use the same PowerShell session from Find Azure page blob storage account connection 

      string. 

    2. Use the frx command del-secure-key to delete the secure key from Credential Manager. 

        PowerShell 

        & "C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\frx.exe" del-secure-key -key <custom-key- 
        name> 

    3. Use the frx command list-secure-key to validate it was removed successfully. 

        PowerShell 

        & "C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\frx.exe" list-secure-key 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 150-----------------------

Custom profile redirections.xml 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

 ＂  Tutorial: Create and implement redirections.xml 

 ＂   FAQ:  Redirects or redirections.xml 

Custom profile redirections are configured using an XML file (redirections.xml) located within 

the user's profile container. FSLogix doesn't create the redirections.xml file. The redirections.xml 

file is copied to the user's profile container from a source location. In most cases, the source 

location is a remote file share where the users have access to copy from and into their profile 

container. This document provides details on the redirection.xml file and how best to 

implement it for your specific use case. 

When to use redirections.xml 

Data in the user's profile isn't designed to be removed or excluded. Unless you have intimate 

knowledge of the data in the profile or the application, don't exclude it from the container. 

Include and Exclude files and folders within a Profile container 

To include / exclude files and / or folders within a users profile container, you need to create a 

file called redirections.xml. This file defines what to copy or exclude to / from a user's profile 

container. The XML file is processed during a users sign in and sign out of a virtual machine. 

Any changes made to the XML file while the user is signed into the virtual machine, doesn't 

take effect until they sign out and sign-in. 

Removing or renaming the XML file at the source location doesn't remove or rename it for the 

users. If it's necessary to remove the custom redirections, clear out the XML file contents and 

save it to the source location. At the next sign-in, the updated file will be copied to the user's 

profile container. 

----------------------- Page 151-----------------------

   ７ Note 

   redirections.xml is only applicable when used with profile containers and has no effect 

   when using ODFC containers. 

Locations for redirections.xml 

The XML file has two (2) locations. The source location, typically a remote file share, and the 

location in the user's profile container. 

Source File Location 

The XML file can be centrally located for easy distribution. The  RedirXMLSourceFolder setting 

specifies a location where the client checks at sign in to see if there's a redirections.xml file. If 

one is found and it's different than the existing one, it's copied to the user's profile container. 

Then the contents are processed. 

When stored in a central location (for example, root or subdirectory wher e user profile containers 

are stored), be sure users only have read permissions to the XML file. 

   ７ Note 

   Only specify the path to the redirections.xml file, don't specify the file name. 

User's Profile Location 

The redirections.xml file resides in the following location when copied from the source location: 

      %userprofile%\AppData\Local\FSLogix\redirections.xml (inside the user's profile 

      container) 

   ） Important 

   If any entry or entries in the redirections.xml are removed, the contents or folders remain 

   in the VHD(x). Anything added in the redirections.xml is put in the local_ %username%  folder, 

   but what already exists in the VHD(x) is not removed from the VHD(x). 

XML File Contents 

----------------------- Page 152-----------------------

The redirections.xml file is composed of the XML declaration, three (3) elements and two (2) 

attributes. The XML declaration is standard and shouldn't be changed. 

Elements and Attributes 

      FrxProfileFolderRedirection: This is the first element in the XML file and should be used 

      only once. 

         ExcludeCommonFolders: This attribute defines which (if any) well known folders 

         should be redirected out of the user's profile container. This attribute takes a bitmask 

         value that tells FSLogix which combination of folders to exclude. Add up the values for 

         all the folders to be excluded. For example, a value of 7 excludes the Contacts, 

         Desktop, and Documents folders. 

            1: Contacts folder 

            2: Desktop folder 

            4: Documents folder 

            8: Downloads folder 

            16: Links folder 

            32: Music folders 

            64: Pictures and Videos folders 

            128: Folders involved in Low Integrity Level processes like AppData\LocalLow 

         Excludes: This element is used for a collection of nested  Exclude elements. 

            Exclude: This element describes a single location to exclude from the user's 

            container. The path used in these elements must exist in the user's profile path 

            ( %userprofile% ). The path must NOT include the  C:\Users\%username%  part of the 

            path. 

               Copy: This attribute defines how FSLogix handles the files and folders during the 

               redirection. The attribute can be omitted from the element that is the same as 

               using a value of 0. 

                  0: Creates an empty folder in the  local_%username%  directory. No files are 

                  copied during the operation. Copy 0 is the most common value used to 

                  decrease contents of a user's profile. Any data that is already in the container 

                  at the location isn't removed. Only future data is created in the 

                  local_%username%  folder during the user’s session and removed at sign out. 

                  1: Creates the folder in the  local_%username%  directory AND copies the files 

                  FROM the specified location. Data in the container is copied to the 

                  local_%username%  folder and any new data is also written to that path. At user 
                  sign out the  local_%username%  is removed and any new data is lost. Nth sign 

                  ins always copies data from the container to the  local_%username%  folder. 

----------------------- Page 153-----------------------

                 2: Creates the folder in the  local_%username%  directory AND copies the files 

                 TO the specified location. A  new (empty) folder is created in 

                  local_%username% . During the user's session, data is written to that path. At 

                 sign out, the data is copied into the container. Don't use this value unless 

                 directed by a Micr osoft support engineer. 

                 3: Creates the folder in the  local_%username%  directory AND copies the files 

                 FROM and TO the specified location. This value combines the effects from 1 

                 and 2. Existing data is copied out of the container and into the 

                  local_%username%  folder. New data is written to the  local_%username%  path 

                 and at sign out, all data is copied back into the container. 

         Includes: This element is used for a collection of nested  Include elements. 

            Include: This element is used to ensure a subdirectory of an exclude path is kept in 

           the container. The COPY value isn't used in these elements. The path used in these 

           elements must exist in the user's profile path ( %userprofile% ). The path must NOT 

           include the  C:\Users\%username%  part of the path. 

           ７ Note 

              The folder or data must exist in the profile to be included back into the 

              container. For example, new profiles using FSLogix with an include statement 

              may not have all the folder structures created for a specific path because the 

              user has never used the application within the context of their FSLogix profile 

              container. 

              The parent folder of an included folder path  MUST exist in the container for 

              the include to work correctly. 

              The XML file will accept any number of  Include and  Exclude elements. 

Example redirections.xml 

  ） Important 

  This example shows how the elements can be used and should not be used in any 

  production environment. Follow the Create and implement redirections.xml tutorial for a 

  real-world XML implementation. Excludes and includes can have unexpected 

  consequences and must be created with care. 

   1. Exclude the well-known folders (Contacts, Links, and Music) 

----------------------- Page 154-----------------------

   2. Exclude the Contoso Sales App, copying any data from the container to the 

       local_%username%  folder and back into the container at sign out. The exclude statement 

                                                                                             1 
      with copy moves the I/O of the data to the local disk instead of the container  . 

   3. Exclude the Contoso Web App folder with no copy operation (all data is removed at sign 

      out). 

   4. Include back the  Settings folder inside the excluded Contoso Web App folder. 

1 I/O is still required to copy the data. 

  XML 

  <?xml version="1.0"  encoding="UTF-8"?> 
  <FrxProfileFolderRedirection ExcludeCommonFolders="49"> 
  <Excludes> 
  <Exclude Copy="3">AppData\Roaming\Contoso\ContosoSalesApp</Exclude> 
  <Exclude Copy="0">AppData\Local\Contoso\ContosoWebApp</Exclude> 
  </Excludes> 
  <Includes> 
  <Include>AppData\Local\Contoso\ContosoWebApp\Settings</Include> 
  </Includes> 
  </FrxProfileFolderRedirection> 

   ７ Note 

         On Windows 8 and later, folders involved in Low Integrity Level processes are 

         ALWAYS redirected to the  local_%username%  directory. 

         If the same folder is specified in both  Exclude and  Include elements, the  Exclude 

         will take precedence. 

         To list the redirections put in place by FSLogix, use the frx command-line utility. 

Next steps 

  redirections.xml FAQ 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 155-----------------------

Local include and exclude groups 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

  default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

  access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

  Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

  hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

FSLogix provides four (4) local groups to granularly control which users or groups are 

processed by the FSLogix service. Each type of container has a respective include and exclude 

group. The exclude groups have no members by default. The include groups automatically 

include the  Everyone group. 

Use cases: 

     You don't want your administrator accounts to use FSLogix. 

     You only want FSLogix to apply to a specific group of users. 

     You want to prevent a specific group of users from using FSLogix. 

      Used for pilot or 'proof-of-concept' programs. 

----------------------- Page 156-----------------------

Figure 1: Computer Management Local Groups 

Default include group members 

    Tip 

   Checking the include and exclude group members is a good start when troubleshooting a 

   user's container fails to attach or signs in with a temp or local profile. 

----------------------- Page 157-----------------------

Figure 2: Default group memberships 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 158-----------------------

Using FSLogix Group Policy Template Files 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

FSLogix provides Group Policy administrative template files in the form of .admx and 

language-specific .adml files. These files can be used within the Local Group Policy Editor and 

the Group Policy Management Editor. The Local Group Policy Editor is used to edit Local Group 

Policy Objects (LGPOs). The Group Policy Management Editor, which is available from within 

the Group Policy Management Console (GPMC), can be used to edit domain-based policy 

objects. 

Prerequisites 

 ＂   Download FSLogix. 

 ＂   Extract the compressed archive. 

 ＂   Explore the extracted contents. 

----------------------- Page 159-----------------------

Figure 1: FSLogix package content 

Locate the two files (fslogix.admx and fslogix.adml) and copy them to a location based on a 

local or central store configuration. 

Local Group Policy Editor 

Follow these steps to configure FSLogix using the Local Group Policy Editor. 

    1. Copy the template files based on the table: 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

        File Type                File Location 

        ADMX language            %systemroot%\policyDefinitions 
        neutral 
        (fslogix.admx) 

        ADML language            %systemroot%\policyDefinitions[MUIculture] (for example, the United States 
        specific                 English ADMX language-specific file is stored in 
        (fslogix.adml)           %systemroot%\policyDefinitions\en-us) 

    2. Run the Local Group Policy Editor tool (GPEDIT.MSC). 

    3. Browse to Computer Configuration then Administrative Templates then  FSLogix. 

    4. Review and enable desired settings, then save the policy object. 

----------------------- Page 160-----------------------

      Figure 2: Local Policy settings 

         ７ Note 

         These settings are applied only on the local machine and will not be applied to other 

         Virtual Machines. 

Group Policy Management Console 

Utilizing domain-based GPO(s) allows you to distribute settings to any number of virtual 

machines within your Active Directory domain. Domain-based GPO(s) rely on a central store in 

the SYSVOL folder on every Domain Controller in the domain. 

Domain File Locations 

Copy the template files based on the table: 

                                                                                           ﾉ   Expand table 

  File Type          Domain Controller File Location(s) 

 ADMX language       %systemroot%\sysvol\domain\policies\PolicyDefinitions 
  neutral 
  (fslogix.admx) 

----------------------- Page 161-----------------------

  File Type          Domain Controller File Location(s) 

 ADML language       %systemroot%\sysvol\domain\policies\PolicyDefinitions[MUIculture] (for example, 
  specific           the United States English ADMX language-specific file is stored in 
  (fslogix.adml)     %systemroot%\sysvol\domain\policies\PolicyDefinitions\en-us) 

   ７ Note 

   The Domain Controller file locations for the table assume you are logged onto one of the 

   Domain Controllers for your domain. 

For more information, see How to create and manage the Central Store for Group Policy 

Administrative Templates in Windows. 

Group Policy Management Editor 

   ７ Note 

   You must have the appropriate permissions to be able to perform these actions. 

    1. Sign into a computer or virtual machine that is part of your Active Directory domain. 

    2. If using a Windows client OS, add the Group Policy Management Tools: 

            Open the Settings app > System > Optional features > Add feature (if on a version 

            older than Windows 10 22H2, navigate to Settings > Apps > Apps & features > 

            Optional features > Add feature instead). 

             Select RSAT: Group Policy Management Tools > Add. 

            Wait for Windows to add the feature. 

    3. Open the Group Policy Management app. 

   4. Locate your Organizational Unit (OU) where the computer accounts are located, then 

      from the context menu select Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here.... 

    5. Fill in a name for the new GPO and select OK. 

    6. Right-click on the new created policy and select Edit. 

----------------------- Page 162-----------------------

   Figure 3: Domain edit of GPO policy 

7. Expand Computer configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > FSLogix and 

   enable the desired settings for your configuration. 

8. For each setting, double-click on it, enable and eventually fill in required values and select 

   OK to save and exit the dialog: 

----------------------- Page 163-----------------------

     Figure 4: Enable GPO setting for FSLogix 

  9. At next GPO refresh cycle, the virtual machines will receive these new policy settings, and 

     will apply to the local machine registry configuration. 

 10. You can connect locally to the machine and execute the following command to force the 

     policy refresh:  GPUPDATE /Target:Computer /force . 

  ） Important 

  Group Policy settings stored under  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix are considered 

  preferences and NOT policies. This means that if a Group Policy is either removed or the 

  setting is changed to Not Configured, the registry setting will remain on the virtual 

  machine. This primarily affects settings related to Apps, Logging and Profiles. ODFC 

  settings are located under  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC and will 

  correctly reset themselves under the above circumstances. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 164-----------------------

Concurrent or multiple connections to a 
single container 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

Users connect to Virtual and Remote Desktops or Remote Applications in different ways 

depending on how those environments are configured. The following outlines some 

terminology used when users connect to these remote systems: 

      Standard connections 

         User creates a single remote session on a Windows computer through a full desktop or 

         remote application experience. 

      Concurrent connections 

         User creates a remote session on a Windows computer through a full desktop or 

         remote application. The same user creates a second remote session on the same 

        Windows computer through a full desktop or remote application. 

      Multiple connections 

         User creates a remote session on a Windows computer through a full desktop or 

         remote application. The same user creates a new remote session on a different 

        Windows computer through a full desktop or remote application. 

  ７ Note 

  When working with concurrent or multiple connection types, the configuration is different 

   between Profile and ODFC containers. Profile containers use a configuration called 

   ProfileType and the ODFC container uses a configuration called  VHDAccessMode . Each 

   configuration operates differently. 

----------------------- Page 165-----------------------

  ２ Warning 

  OneDrive doesn't support concurrent or multiple connections using the same container, 

   under any circumstance. Please see the OneDrive documentation on this topic. 

Prerequisites 

Before configuring for concurrent or multiple connections, install and configure profile 

containers. 

Concurrent connections 

Concurrent connections are used when a user needs to have more than one (1) session on a 

single computer using the same Profile or ODFC container. Concurrent connections require 

other registry entries to allow these types of connections. This scenario supports the use of 

both VHD(x) base disk and VHD(x) differencing disks. 

  ２ Warning 

  Concurrent connections are NOT supported by Session Hosts running in an Azure Virtual 

   Desktop Host Pool. 

Required Settings 

Registry Key: HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Terminal Server 

                                                                                ﾉ   Expand table 

 Value Name                                         Value Type                   Value 

 fDenyTSConnections                                 DWORD                        0 

 fSingleSessionPerUser                              DWORD                        0 

Multiple connections 

Multiple connections are used when a user needs to have more than one (1) session, each on a 

different computer, using the same Profile or ODFC container. This scenario is only supported 

----------------------- Page 166-----------------------

using VHD(x) differencing disks. Unlike concurrent connections, no other configuration is 

required beyond the differencing disks. 

Profile container VHD(x) differencing disks 

Concurrent and Multiple connections require specific configuration for the Profile container in 

order to make use of VHD(x) differencing disks. 

To use Concurrent\Multiple Connections, the ProfileType must be set to  3 . 

Computer attempts Read/Write lock, revert to Read Only: 

      Sign on: 

         Client checks to see if a  RW.VHD(x) file exists. If it doesn't, the client takes the RW role 

         and performs the same steps as  ProfileType = 1. If the  RW.VHD(x) file does exist, the 

         client takes the RO role and does the same steps as  ProfileType = 2. 

   ７ Note 

         RO difference disks are stored in the local temp directory and are named 

         %usersid%_RO.VHD(x). 

        The RW difference disk is stored on the network next to the parent VHD(x) file and is 

         named  RW.VHD(x). 

        The merge operation can be safely interrupted and continued. (e.g. If one client 

         begins the merge operation and is interrupted or powered off, another client can 

         safely continue and complete the merge). This is why both RW and RO clients 

         attempt a merge operation. 

         Merge operations on an ReFS file system, where the difference disk and the parent 

         are on the same ReFS volume, are nearly instantaneous regardless the size of the 

         difference disk. 

         Merge operations can only be done if there are no open handles to either the 

         difference disk or the parent VHD(x). The RO client also attempts to merge the RW 

        VHD(x) as it may be the last session to disconnect. 

ODFC container VHD(x) differencing disks 

Concurrent and Multiple connections require specific configuration for the ODFC container in 

order to make use of VHD(x) differencing disks. 

----------------------- Page 167-----------------------

To use Concurrent\Multiple Connections, the VHDAccessMode Type need to be 3: 

Session-based local VHD(x) 

      Sign On 

          Client searches for a session-based VHD(x) that isn't currently in use 

          If found, it's directly attached and used 

          If not found, one is created 

          If a new VHD is created, resulting in session-based VHD(x) files greater than the 

          number specified to keep in the setting,  NumSessionVHDsToKeep, the VHD(x) is marked 

          for deletion on sign out. 

      Sign out 

          Client detaches the VHD(x) 

          If the VHD(x) is marked for deletion, it's deleted 

   ７ Note 

         Local difference disks are stored in the local temp directory and are named 

          %usersid%_ODFC.VHD(x). 

         Difference disks stored on the network are located next to the parent VHD(x) file and 

         are named  %computername%_ODFC.VHD(x). 

         The merge operation can be safely interrupted and continued. (e.g. If one client 

         begins the merge operation and is interrupted or powered off, another client can 

         safely continue and complete the merge). 

         Merge operations on an ReFS file system, where the difference disk and the parent 

         are on the same ReFS volume, are nearly instantaneous regardless the size of the 

         difference disk. 

         Merge operations can only be done if there are no open handles to either the 

         difference disk or the parent VHD(x). Therefore, only the last session can successfully 

         merge its difference disk. 

         Session-based VHD(x) files are named  ODFC-%username%-SESSION- 

         <SessionNumber>.VHD(x) where  <SessionNumber> is an integer from 0 - 9. 

         The maximum number of session-based VHD(x) files is 10. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 168-----------------------

Redirect and move Windows known 
folders to OneDrive 

Article  • 03/27/2025 

This article is for IT admins managing the OneDrive sync app. 

There are two primary advantages of moving or redirecting Windows known folders 

(Desktop, Documents, Pictures, Screenshots, and Camera Roll) to Microsoft OneDrive for 

the users in your domain: 

      Your users can continue using the folders they're familiar with. They don't have to 

      change their daily work habits to save files to OneDrive. 

      Saving files to OneDrive backs up your users' data in the cloud and gives them 

      access to their files from any device. 

For these reasons, we recommend moving (redirecting) known folders to OneDrive if 

you're an enterprise or large organization. See all our recommendations for configuring 

the sync app. Small or medium businesses might also find this process useful, but keep 

in mind you need some experience configuring policies. For info about the end-user 

experience, see Protect your files by saving them to OneDrive         . 

Prepare to move known folders on existing 
devices 

We recommend that you upgrade to the latest available build before you deploy. 

For information on issues that can prevent folders from being moved, see Fix problems 

with folder protection     . Known Folder Move doesn't work for users syncing OneDrive 

files in SharePoint Server. 

   ） Important 

   If your organization is large and your users have many files in their known folders, 

   make sure you roll out the configuration slowly to minimize the network impact of 

   uploading files. For users who have many files in their known folders, consider 

   using the policy Limit the sync app upload rate to a percentage of throughput 

   temporarily to minimize the network impact and then disable the policy once 

   uploads are complete. 

----------------------- Page 169-----------------------

Folders redirected to other organizations 

If a user's Documents, Pictures, or Desktop folders are currently redirected to OneDrive 

in a different organization, redirecting to your organization’s OneDrive creates new 

Documents, Pictures, or Desktop folders and the user then sees an empty desktop. The 

user has to manually migrate files from the other organization’s OneDrive to OneDrive 

in your organization. We recommend that you disable the redirect to the other 

organization before redirecting to your organization if possible. 

About the Known Folder Move policies 

OneDrive policies can be set using Group Policy, Intune Windows 10 Administrative 

Templates, or by configuring registry settings. For a full reference of available policies 

and their registry settings, see Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings. 

The following policies control the Known Folder Move feature: 

      Prompt users to move Windows known folders to OneDrive 

      Use this setting to give the users a call to action to move their Windows known 

      folders. 

----------------------- Page 170-----------------------

If users dismiss the prompt, a reminder notification appears in the activity center 

until they move all known folders or an error occurs with the move, in which case 

the reminder notification can be dismissed. 

----------------------- Page 171-----------------------

   ） Important 

   We recommend deploying the prompt policy for existing devices only, and 

   limiting the deployment to 5,000 devices a day and not exceeding 20,000 

   devices a week between macOS and Windows. 

Silently move Windows known folders to OneDrive 

Use this setting to redirect and move known folders to OneDrive without any user 

interaction. Move all the folders or select the desired individual folders. After a 

folder is moved, the policy won't affect the folder again, even if the selection for 

the folder changes. 

You can choose to display a notification to users after their folders have been 

redirected. 

We also recommend using this setting together with Prompt users to move 

Windows known folders to OneDrive.. If moving the known folders silently doesn't 

succeed, users are prompted to correct the error and continue. 

   ） Important 

----------------------- Page 172-----------------------

        We recommend deploying the silent policy for existing devices and new 

        devices while limiting the deployment of existing devices to 1,000 devices a 

        day and not exceeding 4,000 devices a week between macOS and Windows. 

      Prevent users from turning off Known Folder Move 

      Use this setting to require users to keep their known folders directed to OneDrive. 

        ７ Note 

        Users can direct their known folders by opening OneDrive sync app settings, 

        clicking the Backup tab, and then clicking  Manage backup. 

      Prevent users from moving their Windows known folders to OneDrive 

      Use this setting to prevent users from moving their known folders to any OneDrive 

      account. 

For info about using the OneDrive policies, see Use Group Policy to control OneDrive 

sync app settings. 

Transition from the Windows Folder 
Redirection Group Policy obje cts 

The OneDrive Known Folder Move Group Policy objects doesn't work if you previously 

used Windows Folder Redirection Group Policy objects to redirect the Documents, 

Pictures, or Desktop folders to a location other than OneDrive. The OneDrive Group 

Policy objects don't affect the Music and Videos folders, so you can keep them 

redirected with the Windows Group Policy objects. Follow these steps to switch to using 

the Known Folder Move Group Policy objects. 

  ７ Note 

   Extending the scope of folders synced by OneDrive using Windows Folder 

   Redirection Group Policy isn't supported. 

      If folders have been redirected to OneDrive using Windows Folder Redirection 

      Group Policy: 

         1. Disable the Window Folder Redirection Group Policy and make sure to leave 

           the folder and contents on OneDrive. 

----------------------- Page 173-----------------------

         2. Enable Known Folder Move Group Policy. Known folders remain in OneDrive. 

      If folders have been redirected to a location on a local PC: 

         1. Disable the Window Folder Redirection Group Policy and make sure to leave 

           the folder and contents at the redirected location. 

         2. Enable Known Folder Move Group Policy. Known folders move to OneDrive. 

      If folders have been redirected to a network file share: 

         1. Use Migration Manager to copy contents in the network file share location to 

            a user's OneDrive, making sure that all contents go into the existing 

            Documents, Pictures, or Desktop folders. 

              ７ Note 

              If Migration Manager creates the Documents, Pictures, or Desktop 

              folders, ensure that Preserve file share permissions isn't selected when 

              performing the migration. 

         2. Disable the Window Folder Redirection Group Policy and make sure to leave 

           the folder and contents on the network file share. 

         3. Enable Known Folder Move Group Policy. Known folders move to OneDrive 

            and will merge with the existing Desktop, Documents, and Pictures folders, 

           which contain all the file share content that you moved in the first step. 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?   Yes        No 

Provide product feedback 

----------------------- Page 174-----------------------

Configuration examples 

      Summarize this article for me 

The example configurations outlined in this article are a progression of complexity based on 

configuration choices. Each example has an associated configuration focused on redundancy or 

disaster recovery. We recommend that you select the simplest configuration for your 

environment. Adding unnecessary complexity leads to incorrect configurations and support 

cases. 

Use these examples as a starting point of your FSLogix configuration. The ideas and concepts 

in these examples should inform your unique organizational requirements. 

Example 1: Standard 

The Standard configuration example is the simplest configuration. Most customers should 

consider it. 

Prerequisites (Standard) 

 ＂    FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Server Message Block (SMB) file share. 

 ＂  Validated share and New Technology File System (NTFS) permissions. 

Configuration items (Standard) 

                                                                                            ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                          Description 

  Single virtual hard disk       The  VHDLocations setting contains a single Universal Naming Convention 
  (VHD) location                 (UNC) path to an SMB file share. 

  Single container               A single profile container is created for the user. The Office Data and Files 
                                 Container (ODFC) isn't configured. 

  No concurrent connections      The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a 

                                 user's profile within only a single connection. 

  No custom profile              No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  redirections 

----------------------- Page 175-----------------------

Registry settings (Standard) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Key name                                     Data         Value                              Description 
                                               type 

  Enabled                                      DWORD         1                                 REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1        DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                            DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                         DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                 DWORD         0                                 Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                     DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                          DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                    DWORD         30000                             Default 

 VHDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-               Example 
                                               or            name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                               REG_SZ        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                   REG_SZ       VHDX                               Recommended 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 2: Standard  + High Availability (Cloud 
Cache) 

The Standard + High Availability configuration example enhances the basic  Standard example 

by incorporating Cloud Cache to ensure regional availability for the profile container. This 

configuration is designed to provide robustness and redundancy. The profile container is 

accessible even if failures or outages occur in a specific region. 

----------------------- Page 176-----------------------

Cloud Cache acts as a resiliency and availability layer and periodically writes profile data 

upstream to multiple storage providers. By replicating data across unique storage providers, it 

ensures that the profile container remains available even if one storage provider is unavailable. 

This approach enhances reliability and minimizes downtime for users. 

Key points 

      Redundant and robust: Allows the profile container to be accessible even if failures or 

      outages occur, which minimizes downtime for users. 

      Resiliency: Cloud Cache acts as an availability layer and periodically writes profile data 

      upstream to multiple storage providers. 

      Storage design expertise: Cloud Cache functionality is dependent on the performance of 

      your storage providers. 

Summary 

The Standard + High Availability configuration combines the benefits of the Standard setup 

with other measures to maintain availability across regions. The combination makes it suitable 

for critical applications that require continuous access to profile data. 

----------------------- Page 177-----------------------

                                                                       

Figure 1: FSLogix High Availability using Cloud Cache 

Prerequisites (Standard  + High Availability) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Multiple storage providers in the same region or zone-redundant storage. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Standard  + High Availability) 

                                                                                       ﾉ   Expand table 

 Items                   Description 

 Container              The  CCDLocations setting contains at least two storage providers of varying kinds. 
 redundancy             The storage providers are in the same region as the virtual machines. 

----------------------- Page 178-----------------------

 Items                    Description 

 Single container         A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                          configured. 

 No concurrent            The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
 connections              profile within only a single connection. 

 No custom profile        No use of the redirections.xml file. 
 redirections 

Registry settings (Standard  + High Availability) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                      Data         Value                              Description 
                                               type 

 CCDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      type=smb,name="FILES SMB          Example 
                                               or           PROVIDER",connectionString=\\ 
                                               REG_SZ       <storage-account-name- 

                                                            1>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                            <share- 

                                                            name>;type=smb,name="ANF SMB 

                                                            PROVIDER",connectionString=\\ 

                                                            <azure-netapp-files-fqdn>\ 

                                                            <volume-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                           DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 Enabled                                       DWORD        1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2         DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                 DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4          DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                             DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                          DWORD         15                                Recommended 

 ProfileType6                                  DWORD         0                                 Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                      DWORD         15                                Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                           DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                     DWORD        30000                              Default 

----------------------- Page 179-----------------------

  Key name                                        Data         Value                                Description 
                                                  type 

  VolumeType7                                     REG_SZ       VHDX                                 Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 3: Standard  + Disaster Recovery (no 
profile recovery) 

The Standard + Disaster Recovery configuration example is an extension of the basic  Standard 

example. In this setup, duplicate infrastructure exists in another region, but it remains powered 

down until needed. Unlike other recovery scenarios, there's no profile recovery in this 

approach. Instead, users create new profiles in the alternate location. This recovery scenario is 

the least complex, but it comes with a significant drawback. User experience and training are 

critical components for success. 

Key points 

       Duplicate infrastructure: The disaster recovery region mirrors the primary infrastructure 

       but remains inactive until required. 

       No profile recovery: Instead of restoring existing profiles, users create new ones in the 

       alternate location. 

       Simplicity: This approach minimizes complexity but relies heavily on user familiarity and 

       training. 

       User experience: Ensuring a smooth transition and user understanding is crucial. 

Summary 

The Standard + Disaster Recovery configuration balances simplicity with the need for user 

education and adaptation. 

----------------------- Page 180-----------------------

                                                                          

Figure 2: No profile recovery | FSLogix standard containers (VHDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Duplicate storage and compute infrastructure in another region. 

 ＂  Validated NTFS and share-level permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                     Description 

 Single VHD location        The  VHDLocations setting contains a single UNC path to an SMB file share. 

 Single container           A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                            configured. 

  No concurrent             The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
 connections                profile within only a single connection. 

  No custom profile         No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  redirections 

Registry settings (Standard  + Disaster Recovery) 

----------------------- Page 181-----------------------

                                                                                              ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                       Data         Value                              Description 
                                                 type 

  Enabled                                        DWORD        1                                  REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1          DWORD        1                                  Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                  DWORD        1                                  Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                              DWORD        3                                  Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                           DWORD        15                                 Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                   DWORD        0                                  Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                       DWORD        15                                 Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                            DWORD        3                                  Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                      DWORD        30000                              Default 

  VHDLocations                                   MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-               Example 

                                                 or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                                 REG_SZ       <share-name> 

  VolumeType5                                    REG_SZ       VHDX                               Recommended 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 4: Advanced 

The Advanced configuration example builds upon the Standard example by introducing more 

features to enhance flexibility and customization. 

Key points 

       Multiple VHDLocations or object-specific settings: You can specify multiple locations for 

       storing user profiles (VHDLocations). Alternatively, you can define object-specific settings 

       to tailor profile behavior for specific users or groups. This flexibility allows you to optimize 

       profile management based on your organization's needs. 

----------------------- Page 182-----------------------

      Minimal entries in custom profile redirections: Unlike the Standard setup, where the 

      redirections.xml file isn't used, the Advanced configuration minimizes the number of 

      redirections.xml entries. Each entry in the redirections.xml configuration adds complexity 

      and can cause unknown application behaviors. Minimizing these entries might provide an 

      overall better user experience. 

Summary 

The Advanced configuration provides granular control over profile storage and redirection, 

making it suitable for organizations with diverse requirements. 

Prerequisites (Advanced) 

 ＂    FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂    Multiple SMB file shares. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Advanced) 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Items                     Description 

  Multiple VHD locations    The  VHDLocations setting contains a single or multiple UNC paths (separated by 

                            semicolon) to SMB file shares. 

  Object-specific           Allows unique settings based on a user or group SID. 
  settings 

  Single container          A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                            configured. 

  No concurrent             The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's 
  connections               profile within only a single connection. 

  Minimal                   The .xml file contains minimal entries with minor complexity. 
  redirections.xml 

For more information, see Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

----------------------- Page 183-----------------------

Registry settings (Advanced) 

Multiple VHDLocations 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data type   Value                          Description 

  Enabled                                   DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1     DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2             DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                         DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                      DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ProfileType4                              DWORD       0                              Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                  DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                       DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                      REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-name-       Example 
                                           or           1>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name>;\\<storage- 

                                                        account-name- 

                                                        2>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Obj ect-specific VHDLocations 

The default  VHDLocations setting is used for any user or group that isn't matched by the 

object-specific configuration. 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 184-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data       Value                           Description 
                                           type 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1      DWORD       1                              Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2              DWORD       1                              Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount3                          DWORD       3                              Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval3                       DWORD       15                             Recommended 

 ProfileType4                               DWORD       0                              Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                   DWORD       15                             Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount3                        DWORD       3                              Recommended 

 RedirXMLSourceFolder                       REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-            Example 
                                           or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ     VHDX                            Recommended 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-1234\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name            Data type                  Value                                 Description 

 VHDLocations        MULTI_SZ or REG_SZ         \\<server-name>\<share-name>          Example 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-4321\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name        Data type          Value                                                 Description 

 VHDLocations    MULTI_SZ or        \\<azure-netapp-files-computer-                       Example 

                 REG_SZ             account>.contoso.com\<share-name> 

----------------------- Page 185-----------------------

   ２ Warning 

   Use of multiple entries in  VHDLocations doesn't provide container resiliency. When 

   multiple entries exist, users try to create or locate their container from the list of locations 

   in order. The first location to which the user has access or that's available is where the 

   container is created or attached from. If you use multiple entries, users should have access 

   to only a single location. Consider using the object-specific configuration settings instead of 

   multiple VHDLocations. 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

 Example 5: Advanced  + Disaster Recovery (primary 
/ failover) 

The Advanced + Disaster Recovery configuration example adds complexity through a failover 

design. This common strategy helps to ensure the availability and reliability of your 

infrastructure if there's a disaster or a failure. With Cloud Cache, you can configure your devices 

to use two storage providers that store your profile data in different locations. 

Cloud Cache synchronizes your profile data to each of the two storage providers 

asynchronously so that you always have the latest version of your data. Some of your devices 

are in the primary location and the other devices are in the failover location. Cloud Cache 

prioritizes the first storage provider (closest to your device) and uses the other storage provider 

as a backup. 

For example, if your primary device is in West US and your failover device is in East US, you can 

configure Cloud Cache in the following way: 

       The primary device uses a storage provider in West US as the first option and a storage 

       provider in East US as the second option. 

       The failover device uses a storage provider in East US as the first option and a storage 

       provider in West US as the second option. 

       If the primary device or the closest storage provider fails, you can switch to the failover 

       device or the backup storage provider and continue your work without losing your profile 

       data. 

----------------------- Page 186-----------------------

Key points 

      Failover design: This design ensures the availability and reliability of your infrastructure if 

      there's a disaster or a failure. 

      Profile storage: Cloud Cache enables you to store your profile data in different locations. 

      Extra storage cost: Multiple storage locations increase the overall cost. 

      Operational excellence: Manual failover process, which might require the approval of the 

      business stakeholders and process validation. 

      User experience: You might experience some latency or inconsistency in your profile data 

      because of the asynchronous synchronization to the two storage providers. 

Summary 

The Advanced + Disaster Recovery configuration shows how a failover design with Cloud 

Cache can enhance the reliability and availability of your infrastructure by using two storage 

providers in different locations. It also highlights the drawbacks of this approach, such as more 

costs, the need for manual failover initiation, and potential latency or inconsistency in profile 

data. 

                                                                       

Figure 3: Cloud Cache (primary/failover) | FSLogix Cloud Cache ( CCDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂  Two storage providers in at least two regions. 

----------------------- Page 187-----------------------

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                Description 

                                                                                      1 
  Container            The  CCDLocations setting contains two storage providers.   The primary site is 
  redundancy           configured with the closest storage provider listed first, and the failover storage 

                       provider is listed last. The failover site has the reverse configuration. The closest 
                       storage provider is first, and the primary site storage providers are listed last. 

  Single container     A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't configured. 

  No concurrent        The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's profile 
  connections          within only a single connection. 

  No custom            No use of the redirections.xml file. 
  profile 
  redirections 

1 The storage providers must be in different regions or locations. 

For our recommended exclusions, see Custom profile redirections. 

Registry settings (Advanced  + Disaster Recovery) 

Primary site 

                                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                         Data          Value                                    Description 
                                                   type 

  CCDLocations                                     MULTI_SZ       type=smb,name="FILES SMB                Example 
                                                   or            PRIMARY",connectionString=\\ 
                                                   REG_SZ        <storage-account-name- 

                                                                 primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                 <share- 

                                                                 name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                                 PROVIDER 

                                                                 FAILOVER",connectionString=\\ 

                                                                 <storage-account-name- 

----------------------- Page 188-----------------------

 Key name                                  Data        Value                              Description 
                                           type 

                                                       failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 Enabled                                   DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2     DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3             DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                         DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                      DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ProfileType6                              DWORD       0                                  Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                  DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                       DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                 DWORD       30000                              Default 

 VolumeType7                               REG_SZ      VHDX                               Recommended 

Failover site 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                  Data        Value                              Description 
                                           type 

 CCDLocations                              MULTI_SZ    type=smb,name="FILES SMB           Example 
                                           or          FAILOVER",connectionString=\\ 
                                           REG_SZ      <storage-account-name- 

                                                       failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share- 

                                                       name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                       PROVIDER 

                                                       PRIMARY",connectionString=\\ 

                                                       <storage-account-name- 

                                                       primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                       <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

----------------------- Page 189-----------------------

  Key name                                       Data         Value                                  Description 
                                                 type 

  Enabled                                        DWORD        1                                      REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2          DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                  DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4           DWORD        1                                      Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount5                              DWORD        3                                      Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval5                           DWORD        15                                     Recommended 

  ProfileType6                                   DWORD        0                                      Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                       DWORD        15                                     Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount5                            DWORD        3                                      Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                      DWORD        30000                                  Default 

  VolumeType7                                    REG_SZ       VHDX                                   Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 6: Complex 

The Complex configuration example builds upon the Advanced example by introducing 

multiple connections. In this setup, user profiles can handle multiple connections. For this 

reason, a single user can have active sessions across different devices simultaneously. 

Despite the increased complexity, the goal remains to provide a seamless experience for users. 

Properly configured multiple connections enhance productivity and flexibility, which makes this 

configuration suitable for organizations with diverse needs and high demands. 

Azure Virtual Desktop doesn't support multiple connections within the same host pool. 

Summary 

----------------------- Page 190-----------------------

The Complex configuration balances sophistication with user-centric design, making it ideal for 

large organizations requiring scalability and robust profile management. 

                                                                         

Figure 4: Complex example with multiple connections | FSLogix standard containers ( VHDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Complex) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Separate pools of virtual machines. 

 ＂   Multiple SMB file shares (not for high availability). 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

Configuration items (Complex) 

                                                                                          ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                   Description 

  Multiple VHD            The  VHDLocations setting contains a single or multiple UNC paths (separated by 

  locations               a semicolon) to SMB file shares. 

  Object-specific         Allows unique settings based on a user or group SID. 
  settings 

----------------------- Page 191-----------------------

 Items                     Description 

 Single container          A single profile container is created for the user. The ODFC container isn't 
                           configured. 

 Concurrent                The  ProfileType setting is set to  3 . Users can have multiple sign-ins, but only 
 connections               one (1) session allows writes to the base VHD disk. 

 (Optional)                The .xml file contains various entries with added complexity. 
 redirections.xml 

For more information, see Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

Registry settings (Complex) 

Multiple VHDLocations 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                      Data type     Value                             Description 

  Enabled                                      DWORD         1                                 REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1        DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2                DWORD         1                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                            DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                         DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ProfileType4                                 DWORD         0                                 Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                     DWORD         15                                Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                          DWORD         3                                 Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                         REG_SZ        \\<server-name>\<share-name>      Example 

 SizeInMBs                                     DWORD         30000                             Default 

 VHDLocations                                  MULTI_SZ      \\<storage-account-name-          Example 
                                               or            1>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                               REG_SZ        <share-name>;\\<storage- 

                                                             account-name- 

----------------------- Page 192-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data type   Value                          Description 

                                                        2>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Obj ect-specific VHDLocations 

The default  VHDLocations setting is used for any user or group that isn't matched by the 

object-specific configuration. 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data       Value                           Description 
                                           type 

  Enabled                                   DWORD       1                              REQUIRED 

  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply1     DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName2             DWORD       1                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount3                         DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval3                      DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ProfileType4                              DWORD       0                              Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds3                  DWORD       15                             Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount3                       DWORD       3                              Recommended 

  RedirXMLSourceFolder                      REG_SZ      \\<server-name>\<share-name>   Example 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                          Default 

 VHDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    \\<storage-account-            Example 
                                           or           name>.file.core.windows.net\ 
                                            REG_SZ      <share-name> 

 VolumeType5                                REG_SZ      VHDX                           Recommended 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-1234\ 

----------------------- Page 193-----------------------

                                                                                                ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name              Data type                      Value                                       Description 

  VHDLocations          MULTI_SZ or REG_SZ             \\<server-name>\<share-name>                Example 

Registry path:  HKLM:\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-0-0-00-000000000- 

0000000000-000000000-4321\ 

                                                                                                ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name          Data type            Value                                                        Description 

  VHDLocations      MULTI_SZ or          \\<azure-netapp-files-computer-                              Example 
                    REG_SZ               account>.contoso.com\<share-name> 

   ２ Warning 

   Use of multiple entries in  VHDLocations doesn't provide container resiliency. When 

   multiple entries exist, a user tries to create or locate their container from the list of 

   locations in order. The first location to which the user has access or that's available is 

   where the container is created or attached from. If you use multiple entries, users should 

   have access to only a single location. Consider using the object-specific configuration 

   settings instead of multiple VHDLocations. 

1 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

2 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

3 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

4 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

5 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Example 7: Complex  + Disaster Recovery (active / 
active) 

The Complex + Disaster Recovery configuration example builds upon the Advanced + Disaster 

Recovery example by implementing an active/active design. Instead of load balancing between 

the two sites, this configuration relies on users having access to only one location. If there's a 

drill or business continuity and disaster recovery, users from a failed region are granted access 

to virtual machines in the functioning region. 

----------------------- Page 194-----------------------

Key points 

      Failover capability: If a disaster occurs, the surviving regions must have capacity to 

      support all users. 

      Profile storage: Cloud Cache enables you to store your profile data in different locations. 

      Extra storage cost: Multiple storage locations increase the overall cost. 

      Operational excellence: Manual failover process, which might require the approval of the 

      business stakeholders, process validation, and proper user assignments. 

      User experience: You might experience some latency or inconsistency in your profile data 

      because of the asynchronous synchronization to the two storage providers. 

Summary 

The Complex + Disaster Recovery configuration with Cloud Cache provides redundancy and 

flexibility, but business decisions play a crucial role in initiating failover. 

                                                                       

Figure 5: Cloud Cache (active/active) | FSLogix Cloud Cache ( CCDLocations) 

Prerequisites (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

 ＂   FSLogix prerequisites including antivirus exclusions. 

 ＂  Azure Virtual Desktop or equivalent virtual desktop infrastructure. 

 ＂   Separate pools of virtual machines in each location. 

 ＂   Users have access to only a single region at a time. 

 ＂  Validated share and NTFS permissions (SMB only). 

----------------------- Page 195-----------------------

Configuration items (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Items                 Description 

                                                                                      1 
  Container             The  CCDLocations setting contains two storage providers.   The primary site is 
  redundancy            configured with the closest storage provider listed first and failover storage provider 

                        provided listed last. The failover site has the reverse configuration. The closest 
                        storage provider first, followed by the primary site storage providers listed last. 

  Single container      A Profile and ODFC container exists or is created for each user. 

  No concurrent         The  ProfileType setting is set to  0 or not configured. You can mount a user's profile 
  connections           within only a single connection. 

  (Optional)            The .xml file contains various entries with added complexity. 
  redirections.xml 

For more information, review Custom profile redirections.xml. 

For information on how to implement this feature for Microsoft Teams, see Tutorial: Create and 

implement redirections.xml. 

Registry settings (Complex  + Disaster Recovery) 

Site A (West US) 

                                                                                                 ﾉ    Expand table 

  Key name                                        Data          Value                                   Description 
                                                  type 

  CCDLocations                                    MULTI_SZ      type=smb,name="FILES SMB WEST           Example 
                                                  or            US",connectionString=\\<storage- 
                                                  REG_SZ        account-name- 

                                                                primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                <share- 

                                                                name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                                PROVIDER EAST 

                                                                US",connectionString=\\<storage- 

                                                                account-name- 

                                                                failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                                <share-name> 

  ClearCacheOnLogoff1                             DWORD         1                                       Recommended 

----------------------- Page 196-----------------------

 Key name                                   Data        Value                              Description 
                                            type 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3              DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4       DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryCount5                          DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 LockedRetryInterval5                       DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ProfileType6                               DWORD       0                                  Default 

 ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                   DWORD       15                                 Recommended 

 ReAttachRetryCount5                        DWORD       3                                  Recommended 

 SizeInMBs                                  DWORD       30000                              Default 

 VolumeType7                                REG_SZ      VHDX                               Recommended 

Site B (East US) 

                                                                                     ﾉ   Expand table 

 Key name                                   Data        Value                              Description 
                                            type 

 CCDLocations                               MULTI_SZ    type=smb,name="FILES SMB EAST      Example 
                                            or          US",connectionString=\\<storage- 
                                            REG_SZ      account-name- 

                                                        failover>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share- 

                                                        name>;type=smb,name="FILES SMB 

                                                        PROVIDER WEST 

                                                        US",connectionString=\\<storage- 

                                                        account-name- 

                                                        primary>.file.core.windows.net\ 

                                                        <share-name> 

 ClearCacheOnLogoff1                        DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

 Enabled                                    DWORD       1                                  REQUIRED 

 DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply2      DWORD       1                                  Recommended 

----------------------- Page 197-----------------------

  Key name                                         Data         Value                                    Description 
                                                  type 

  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName3                    DWORD        1                                        Recommended 

  HealthyProvidersRequiredForRegister4             DWORD        1                                        Recommended 

  LockedRetryCount5                                DWORD        3                                        Recommended 

  LockedRetryInterval5                             DWORD        15                                       Recommended 

  ProfileType6                                     DWORD        0                                        Default 

  ReAttachIntervalSeconds5                         DWORD        15                                       Recommended 

  ReAttachRetryCount5                              DWORD        3                                        Recommended 

  SizeInMBs                                        DWORD        30000                                    Default 

  VolumeType7                                      REG_SZ       VHDX                                     Recommended 

1 Recommended to save disk space on the local disk and risk of data loss when you use pooled desktops. 

2 Recommended to ensure that users don't use local profiles and lose data unexpectedly. 

3 Provides an easier way to browse the container directories. 

4 Prevents users from creating a local cache if at least one provider isn't healthy. 

5 Decreases the retry timing to enable a faster fail scenario. 

6 Single connections reduce complexity and increase performance. 

7 VHDX is preferred over VHD because of its supported size and reduced corruption scenarios. 

Appendix: Multiple VHDLocations logic diagram 

When you use multiple values in the  VHDLocations setting, it's important to understand how 

FSLogix determines the location to use. 

   ２ Warning 

   Users who have access to multiple locations might create a new profile in another location 

   if the location for their actual profile isn't available. 

----------------------- Page 198-----------------------

                                                                                            

Figure 6:  VHDLocations logic diagram 

Next step 

  Use group policy templates 

 Last updated on 03/09/2026 

----------------------- Page 199-----------------------

VHD Disk Compaction 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

VHD Disk Compaction is a process that runs every time a user signs out. The compaction 

process is designed to automatically decrease the amount of storage a user's container, 

depending on a predefined threshold. During the sign out phase, FSLogix evaluates the disk to 

determine if disk compaction should run. 

  ７ Note 

  VHD Disk Compaction affects Profile and ODFC containers (including Cloud Cache 

   configurations) 

VHD Disk Compaction is Enabled by default. If you want to disable it, see  Disable VHD Disk 

Compaction. 

The compaction process relies on the Optimize Drives service (defragsvc). This service 

determines the minimum supported size by querying the MSFT_Partition API, using the SizeMin 

parameter from the GetSupportedSize method. This operation takes into account the location 

of immovable files (that is, files that can't be moved). For more information, see 

GetSupportedSize method of the MSFT_Partition class. 

  ） Important 

        If the StartupType of the Optimize Drives service (defragsvc) is set to  Disabled, VHD 

        Disk Compaction will fail to query the minimum supported size and the process will 

        not run. The service StartupType must be set to  Manual or Automatic regardless of 

        whether the service status is  Running or Stopped. 

----------------------- Page 200-----------------------

        You must use dynamically expanding virtual hard disks; fixed size virtual hard disks 

        cannot be compacted. 

Determining when VHD Disk Compaction runs 

FSLogix determines whether to run the compaction process each time a user signs out. If the 

following criteria are met, VHD Disk Compaction runs: 

      Size of the container must be greater than 1 GB (size on disk). 
      Difference(C) between the consumed size on disk(A) and the queried  minimum size(B). The 

      difference must be greater than or equal to 20% of the consumed size within the 
      container(A). 

The difference is calculated as follows: 

      A - B = C 

         If C ≥ (A x 0.2), compaction runs. 

         If C < (A x 0.2), compaction doesn't run. 

Example scenarios 

Here are a couple of examples: 

      Example 1: The consumed size of a container is 6GB. When we call GetSupportedSize, the 

      resulting minimum size is 2.5GB: 

         6 - 2.5 = 3.5 GB 

         20% of 6 GB = 1.2 GB 

         3.5 GB is greater than 1.2 GB, compaction runs. 

      Example 2: The consumed size of a container is 12GB. When we call GetSupportedSize, 

      the resulting minimum size is 10GB: 

         12 - 10 = 2 GB 

         20% of 12 GB = 2.4 GB 

         2 GB is less than 2.4 GB, compaction doesn't run. 

Example table: 

                                                                                     ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 201-----------------------

        Container          Fixed/Dynamic      Configured      Consumed       Supported         Will 
                                                  Size           Size            Size       Compact? 

  profile_ <username>.vhdx     Dynamic           30 GB           6 GB           2.5 GB          Yes 

  profile_ <username>.vhdx     Dynamic           30 GB           12 GB          10 GB           No 

  profile_ <username>.vhdx      Fixed            30 GB          30 GB            N/A            No 

User experience 

When compaction runs, users see the message Waiting for FSLogix Apps Services for some 

time. Depending on the space to recover, the compaction process should take an average of 

20 – 30 seconds. The first compact operation is the longest and is based on recoverable space 

and other compute resource factors. 

Each subsequent sign out should be quicker as the amount of data to compact should 

decrease. VHD Disk Compaction can run for a maximum of 5 minutes. If this maximum is 

reached, the operation ends, and the sign out continues. During the next sign out, the 

operation will resume from the previous state. 

Winlogon events 

VHD Disk Compaction operates at user sign out, which is part of the  Winlogon process. The 

Winlogon process creates a warning event anytime a process causes the sign out time to 

exceed 60 seconds. These warnings are normal and expected. The compaction process could 

exceed 60 seconds depending on the size of the VHD(x) and the space to be recovered. The 

Winlogon threshold is a fixed value and can't be changed. 

See Winlogon (sign out) Delay Warnings for a Log Analytics query to show the number of 

operations that exceed the 60-second threshold and their durations. 

Next steps 

  Troubleshooting VHD Disk Compaction 

  Understand VHD Disk Compaction usage and performance 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 202-----------------------

Configure obj ect specific container settings 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

Configuration settings for profile containers and ODFC containers are applied at the computer 

or virtual machine level. These system-wide settings can be overridden using the object specific 

settings that apply to individual users or groups. Using object specific settings allows an 

organization to have a baseline configuration while providing a more unique or granular 

setting for a specific user or group. 

Setting prioritization: 

   1. Object specific (user) 

   2. Object specific (group) 

   3. System-wide settings (default) 

  ７ Note 

        Object specific settings can't be configured using Group Policy template files. 

        Object specific settings don't support Microsoft Entra ID (cloud-only identities). 

Use PowerShell to translate user or group names to 
security identifiers (SID) 

From any Active Directory (AD) domain joined computer, you can use PowerShell to translate a 

given domain and user or group name to the SID value. 

   1. Sign in to an AD joined computer or virtual machine. 

----------------------- Page 203-----------------------

2. Select Start. 

3. Type  notepad directly into the Start Menu. 

4. Select Notepad from the Start Menu. 

5. Copy the PowerShell code to Notepad. 

     PowerShell 

         $DomainName = "%domainname%" 
         $Username = "%username%" 
         $UserObject = New-Object  
     System.Security.Principal.NTAccount($DomainName,$Username) 
          
     $UserObject.Translate([System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]).Value 

----------------------- Page 204-----------------------

6. Replace the values for  $DomainName and  $Username with your own values. 

7. Select Start. 

8. Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

9. Select Windows PowerShell from the Start Menu. 

----------------------- Page 205-----------------------

  10. Copy the edited syntax into the PowerShell window. 

           If there's a warning dialog when pasting into Windows PowerShell, Select  Paste 

           anyway . 

  11. Press Enter to see the SID for the user or group. 

Create an obje ct specific setting for  VHDLocations 

  ７ Note 

  This is one example for an object specific configuration. Any of the settings for profiles or 

  ODFC can be created under an object specific configuration. 

Using an object specific VHDLocations setting allows specific users or groups to create and 

mount their profiles from various SMB file shares. 

----------------------- Page 206-----------------------

1. Sign in to the virtual machine as the local Administrator account or an account that is a 

   member of the local Administrators group. 

2. Type  registry editor in the Search box. 

3. Select Registry Editor from the Start Menu. 

4. Go to: 

         HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles (profile container) 

         HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC (ODFC container) 

----------------------- Page 207-----------------------

 5. Select Edit -> New -> Key. 

 6. Type ObjectSpecific and press Enter. 

 7. Select Edit -> New -> Key again. 

 8. Type or paste the SID from step 11 in Use PowerShell to translate user or group names to 

    security identifiers (SID). 

 9. Select the new Key with the SID value. 

10. Create a new REG_SZ Value Name for  VHDLocations. 

----------------------- Page 208-----------------------

You can verify that the setting is taking effect by examining the log files. Search the log file for 

the  ObjectSpecific key word and locate the entry showing the configuration was read 

successfully. 

Example: 

 Configuration Read (REG_SZ): SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-1-5-21- 

0000000000-0000000000-0000000000-1234\VHDLocations. Data: \\<server-name>\<share-name> 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 209-----------------------

Configure Windows Search database 
roaming 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage            . 

                                                                                                  1 
FSLogix search roaming functionality is no longer necessary in newer versions of Windows  . 

Now, the default Windows Search service is able to roam all Windows Search index data on a 

per-user basis. FSLogix detects the new per-user Windows Search and automatically disable 

any FSLogix functionality. If you're using FSLogix on these operating systems, you should 

disable the FSLogix settings that enable search roaming. You should also enable the Windows 

Search service on these operating systems to allow per-user search indexes to be created and 

stored in the user's container. 

1 Windows Server 2019 version 1809 and later, Windows 10 and 11 multi-session 

   ７ Note 

   There are no override settings to enable the FSLogix search roaming when it's 

   automatically disabled through Windows version detection. 

Prerequisites 

To use FSLogix search roaming functionality, you must be using one of the following versions 

of Windows: 

      Windows Server 2012 R2 

      Windows Server 2016 

      Windows 10 (prior to 1809) 

----------------------- Page 210-----------------------

Configure single user search roaming 

  ７ Note 

  Applies to Windows 10 (prior to 1809) only. 

   1. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local Administrator or an account with administrative 

      privileges. 

   2. Select Start. 

   3. Type  registry editor directly into the Start Menu. 

   4. Select Registry Editor from the Start Menu. 

   5. Choose one of the following options, but not both. 

      OPTION 1: Enable Windows per-user catalogs. 

            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows Search: 

            "EnablePerUserCatalog"=dword:00000001 

      OPTION 2: Enable FSLogix Roam Search capability. 

            Profile container: 

               HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles: "RoamSearch"=dword:00000001 

            ODFC container: 

               HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC: 

               "RoamSearch"=dword:00000001 

        ２ Warning 

               If both the profile container and ODFC container are configured, the search 

              database will be placed in the profile container. 

               Don't configure  RoamSearch in both profile and ODFC containers. 

Configure single or multi-user search roaming 

  ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 211-----------------------

Applies to Windows Server only. 

 1. Sign in to the virtual machine as a local Administrator or an account with administrative 

    privileges. 

 2. Select Start. 

 3. Type  server manager directly into the Start Menu. 

 4. Select Server Manager from the Start Menu. 

 5. Select Manage. 

 6. Select Add Roles and Features. 

 7. Select Next from the 'Before you begin' window. 

 8. Select Next from the 'Select installation type' window. 

 9. Select Next from the 'Select destination server' window. 

10. Select Next from the 'Select server roles' window. 

11. From the 'Select features' window, scroll the feature list and Select Windows Search 

    Service. 

12. Select Next, then  Install. 

          If the Windows Search Service is installed after Microsoft 365 applications, you must 

          repair the Microsoft 365 applications from Add/Remove Programs. 

13. Add one of the following setting(s): 

    Profile container: 

          HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles: "RoamSearch"=dword:00000002 

          HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Apps: "RoamSearch"=dword:00000002 

    ODFC container: 

          HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC: "RoamSearch"=dword:00000002 

          HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Apps: "RoamSearch"=dword:00000002 

      ２ Warning 

----------------------- Page 212-----------------------

               If both the profile container and ODFC container are enabled, the search 

              database will be placed in the profile container. 

               Don't configure  RoamSearch in both profile and ODFC containers. 

 14. Reboot the virtual machine. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 213-----------------------

Cloud Cache Overview 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

Cloud Cache is a feature that works with Profile and ODFC containers to provide resiliency and 

high availability. Cloud Cache uses the locally mounted container to provide periodic updates 

to the remote storage providers. Cloud Cache is designed to insulate users from short-term or 

intermittent local (inner-region, close proximity) storage issues. Based on the configuration, it 

can also be used as part of a Business Continuity or Disaster Recovery (BCDR) plan when using 

remote storage providers in different regions. Using Cloud Cache puts a performance and 

storage requirement on the virtual machine to accommodate the extra I/O operations and 

storage required by the local cache. 

Cloud Cache considerations: 

      Cloud Cache uses storage providers based on the order of entries in  CCDLocations. 

      Storage providers should be listed in order of proximity, then preference. 

      Only one (1) provider is used when data is hydrated from the storage provider. 

      Data is written to all storage providers regardless of which provider is used during data 

      hydration. 

      Performance (latency, utilization, bottlenecks) of a storage provider affects its sync status 

      with the local copy. 

      Having one (1) or more provider that is behind in updates from local cache could be an 

      indicator of an under performing storage provider. 

      Ping or  Test-NetConnection command results are not the same as transactional I/O and 

      are bad indicators of how a storage provider will or can perform. 

----------------------- Page 214-----------------------

                                                                            

Figure 1: Detailed diagram showing Cloud Cache components 

Cloud Cache Components 

Local Cache 

Cloud Cache is able to insulate a user from connectivity issues to the remote storage providers 

because the container used for the user's profile is created and stored local to the virtual 

machine (local cache). During a first-time sign-in, FSLogix creates the container for the user in 

C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache and stores data read from the remote storage provider and 

data written from the local machine. Next, FSLogix sets up all the necessary redirections for the 

user's profile. Then the User Profile Service creates the user's profile into the local cache. 

During a 2nd or Nth sign-in, FSLogix attempts to find and mount any previous local cache 

VHD(s) stored on the virtual machine. Looking for a local cache is the default configuration 

setting and may not be desired as it may lead to low disk space events. Review the Cloud 

Cache settings reference page for more settings. If no local cache VHD(s) exists, a Proxy file is 

registered and a local cache VHD created. Next, FSLogix will set up the necessary redirections 

for the user's profile. Finally, FSLogix will use one (1) of the remote storage providers as the 

read source to populate the local cache as requested by the operating system during the sign- 

in process to complete the sign-in. 

Cache Obj ects 

Queue f iles 

----------------------- Page 215-----------------------

The  *.queue files are created for each remote storage provider. Each  *.queue file will track the 

various  *.index files which haven't flushed to the local cache or remote storage providers. 

Index f iles 

The  *.index files contain batches of block-level changes that need to be written to the local 

cache and remote storage providers. 

Figure 2: Cloud Cache Local Cache 

Remote Storage Providers (hydrate, flush, clone) 

Cloud Cache operates the user's profile from the local cache during the user's session and must 

be configured with one or more remote storage providers as specified in  CCDLocations. These 

remote storage providers store full copies of the local cache and are used during the current 

session and for subsequent sign ins. If all providers become unhealthy during the user's 

                                                                  1 
session, the local cache continues to operate and grow  until one or more provider returns to a 

healthy state. 

   ２ Warning 

   If a read is requested from the user's profile and Cloud Cache is unable to hydrate the 

   data from any of the remote storage providers, this will cause a session hang or worse a 

   system crash (BSOD). 

1 The local cache will only grow up to the maximum size of the container as specified in the  SizeInMBs setting. 

----------------------- Page 216-----------------------

Hydrate 

When the local cache doesn't contain the data requested by the file system, Cloud Cache 

hydrates (reads and copies) the data from 1 of the remote storage providers to the local cache. 

This operation is also part of the sign in process when populating the local cache for the user's 

profile. 

Flush 

The flush operation commonly occurs in three ways. 

    1. On a lazy asynchronous operation, Cloud Cache flushes the changes to all storage 

       providers simultaneously as each provider is flushed on its own thread. FSLogix doesn't 

       throttle this operation and utilizes as much throughput as the system will allow. 

    2. During sign out when one or more providers don't contain all the updates, the user's sign 

                       2 
       out is delayed  until all providers are at the same sequence. 

    3. During a user's session when the connection to any storage provider becomes unhealthy, 

       FSLogix queues up all the changes and then flushes them to the providers when they 

       return to a healthy state. 

2 A user's sign out is delayed based on how Cloud Cache is configured using the  HealthyProvidersRequiredForUnregister and 

CcdUnregisterTimeout value. 

Clone 

A full VHD(x) clone is performed when Cloud Cache determines, at sign in, that a storage 

provider isn't at the same sequence. During this operation, all pending writes are kept in the 

local cache until all storage providers are at the same sequence. Once complete, the flush 

operation begins sending new data to the storage providers. 

Proxy File 

Cloud Cache uses the concept of a proxy file, represented as  Profile_%username%.vhd though it 

isn't a true VHD file. The proxy file is mounted to the local machine as the registered VHD 

representing the user's container. The proxy file is used as a means to process all I/O writes 

destined for the local cache. This includes missing data in the local cache that is hydrated from 

a remote storage provider. The I/O writes are buffered on disk and tracked via the proxy file 

before they're written out as  *.index cache objects in the cache directory. While the proxy file 

has the same size as the local cache file, the actual size on disk is zero, as no data is written to 

this file. 

----------------------- Page 217-----------------------

Figure 3: Cloud Cache Proxy File 

Auxiliary Files 

Cloud Cache makes use of two (2) auxiliary files in order to maintain control and sequence of 

the local cache. 

   ７ Note 

   These auxiliary files are used by FSLogix and are not meant to be opened or used outside 

   of the product. Any relevant information in those files will be made available through our 

   log files or event log entries. 

----------------------- Page 218-----------------------

Lock File 

The lock file is what its name might imply, a file use to determine which virtual machine has an 

I/O lock on the container. Cloud Cache uses this information to determine ownership of the 

container for a given provider. The lock file mechanism is critical when using Cloud Cache with 

ProfileType set to '3' (Multiple or concurrent sessions). This file only exists on the remote 

storage providers. 

Meta File 

The meta file is a multi-purpose file where we track the state of the container. Inside the meta 

file, Cloud Cache uses a sequence numbering system to determine which provider has the 

most recent data. This file is both local to the virtual machine and synced to the remote 

storage providers. 

Storage Providers 

FSLogix isn't a storage provider, rather we rely on underlying architecture of the storage 

provider(s). For more information on the storage providers FSLogix supports, review our 

Container Storage Options. 

Next steps 

  High Availability or Container Resiliency Options using Cloud Cache 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 219-----------------------

High availability options for FSLogix 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

A high availability design isn't solely focused on a single element rather ensuring all the 

elements of a given solution have a level of redundancy. The FSLogix design goal applies high 

availability so that the underlying storage provider has replicas of your data. This goal doesn't 

take into account the availability of the virtual machine, network or any other dependent 

resource needed to access the storage provider. Implementing a high availability solution for 

user profiles is aimed at insulating users from momentary or short-lived storage issues or 

outages. 

   ７ Note 

   High availability in these contexts is specifically focused on protecting the user's profile 

   container within the same region or data center. 

High availability with Cloud Cache containers 
(preferred) 

 ＂   Review: Cloud Cache overview 

    Tip 

   The storage examples in the diagrams could be swapped with Azure page blobs in lieu of 

   Azure Files. Configuring both Azure Files and page blobs aren't unique enough to provide 

   a sufficient level of isolation in the event of an outage. 

----------------------- Page 220-----------------------

Cloud Cache containers are user profile VHD(x) files used with storage providers listed in the 

CCDLocations configuration setting. Cloud Cache allows for multiple storage providers, which 

are kept up-to-date from the local cache of the virtual machine. Using multiple storage 

providers, both on-premises and Azure based solutions may be able to separate the storage 

providers in order to mitigate any one (1) outage from affecting both storage providers. Most 

commonly high availability is achieved through using unique storage providers within the same 

region or data center. 

Azure Files is configured for ZRS and Azure NetApp Files isn't configured with any redundancy. 

This design limits the exposure of an outage or issue affecting one of these storage platforms, 

which provides more resiliency than creating two (2) Azure Files (shares), two (2) Azure NetApp 

Files (capacity pools or volumes), or two (2) Azure page blob accounts. 

----------------------- Page 221-----------------------

Figure 1: FSLogix High Availability with Cloud Cache 

Session Hosts in Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) are configured with  CCDLocations. The diagram is 

based on a common AVD deployment scenario. While this design doesn't represent every 

customer environment, the goal is to demonstrate a multi-provider configuration within a 

single region or data center for high availability purposes. Cloud Cache is configured in such a 

way that the local cache is stored on the same disk as the operating system. Alternatively, the 

----------------------- Page 222-----------------------

virtual machine could be configured with another disk, in Azure this disk could be a  Managed 

                                          1 
Disk (data disk) or a Temporary disk  . 

1 Temporary disks have many caveats and should reviewed before implemented in a production environment. 

High availability with standard containers 

Standard containers are user profile VHD(x) files used with storage providers, which are listed 

in the  VHDLocations configuration setting. Customers using FSLogix in an on-premises 

environment may have limited options in designing their storage resiliency in comparison to 

Azure based storage providers. This design requires significant investment in storage 

architecture, which is locally redundant and redundant across other failure domains. As 

outlined, Azure provides native capabilities in these scenarios. 

   ２ Warning 

         FSLogix in this configuration is not providing any resiliency and is fully reliant on the 

         storage provider. 

         This section will focus on Azure based storage providers, which have native high 

         availability options. 

Azure Files 

 ＂    Review: Azure Files documentation 

 ＂    Review: Azure Storage redundancy 

It's highly recommended to use zone-redundant storage (ZRS) when configuring an Azure Files 

share. This ensures the data is replicated across the three (3) availability zones for the given 

        2 
region . While this data is replicated across the availability zones, this configuration (standard 

containers), the container is mounted to the virtual machine over the network using the SMB 

protocol. 

2 Not all Azure regions support availability zones, see Azure regions with availability zone support. 

   ２ Warning 

   Any network, connection, configuration change or issues with other dependent resource 

   need to access the Azure File share will result in the user's session becoming unstable or 

   unresponsive and could lead to a session disconnect. 

----------------------- Page 223-----------------------

Azure NetApp Files 

 ＂   Review: Use availability zones for high availability in Azure NetApp Files 

Currently, the only option for high availability using Azure NetApp Files is to use their 

availability zone placement feature. The availability zone placement feature only let's you 

deploy volumes in availability zones of your choice, which should be in alignment with Azure 

compute and other services in the same zone. 

   Ｕ Caution 

   This storage provider doesn't provide enough redundancy for FSLogix high availability 

   using standard containers. 

Next steps 

  Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery using FSLogix 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 224-----------------------

Business continuity and disaster recovery 
options for FSLogix 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

   ７ Note 

   All diagrams are examples based on Azure Virtual Desktop and are applicable to other 

   virtual desktop platforms. 

An effective business continuity and disaster recovery ( BCDR) plan focuses on the processes 

and resources necessary for an organization to operate if a catastrophe or other significant 

outage. Roaming user profiles aren't commonly described as a business or mission-critical 

component of a BCDR strategy. In a virtual desktop environment, a user is unaware they have a 

roaming profile. The profile is roamed to provide users with a consistent experience regardless 

of the virtual machine. Business or mission-critical data shouldn't be stored in a user's profile if 

at all possible. Using OneDrive, SharePoint or other solutions are an effective means for 

protecting data during a BCDR event while not relying on the data roaming with the user as 

part of their profile. This process is best outlined in a recovery-time objective (RTO) and 

recovery-point objective (RPO) exercise where the cost benefit and risk analysis can be 

weighed base on organizational and business goals. 

Option 1: No profile recovery 

 ＂   Example: Standard + Disaster Recovery (no profile recovery) 

While this option doesn't seem like a  BCDR design, it's focused on ensuring business and 

mission-critical data isn't in the user's profile. During a disaster, users would create new profiles 

----------------------- Page 225-----------------------

in either a new location or on a new storage provider (both can be true). This option is the 

most cost effective in terms of infrastructure cost though has a penalty due to the effect it may 

have on the user experience. 

Figure 1: No Profile Recovery | FSLogix standard containers (VHDLocations) 

In the diagram, is a multi-region Host Pool using Azure Virtual Desktop. Both the primary and 

failover regions have a dedicated Azure Files share using zone-redundant storage (ZRS) which 

provides high availability within the region. The failover region has Session Hosts, which are 

stopped or deallocated. In a disaster, the failover region becomes the primary region and users 

will sign-in to those Session Hosts and create new profiles on the Azure Files share in that 

region. 

Option 2: Cloud Cache (primary / failover) 

 ＂    Review: Cloud Cache Overview 

 ＂    Example: Advanced + Disaster Recovery (primary / failover) 

A failover design is a common strategy to ensure the availability and reliability of your 

infrastructure in case of a disaster or a failure. Cloud Cache enables you to use FSLogix using 

----------------------- Page 226-----------------------

this type of failover design. With Cloud Cache, you can configure your devices to use two (2) 

storage providers that store your profile data in different locations. Cloud Cache synchronizes 

your profile data to each of the two storage providers asynchronously, so you always have the 

latest version of your data. Some of your devices are in the primary location and the other 

devices are in the failover location. Cloud Cache prioritizes the first storage provider (closest to 

y our device), and uses the other storage provider as a backup. For example, if your primary 

device is in West US and your failover device is in East US, you can configure Cloud Cache as 

follows: 

      The primary device uses a storage provider in West US as the first option and a storage 

      provider in East US as the second option. 

      The failover device uses a storage provider in East US as the first option and a storage 

      provider in West US as the second option. 

      If the primary device or the closest storage provider fails, you can switch to the failover 

      device or the backup storage provider and continue your work without losing your profile 

      data. 

However, there are some drawbacks of using a failover design with Cloud Cache. First, you 

have to pay extra for storing your profile data in two (2) locations. Second, you have to 

manually initiate the failover process, which may require the approval of the business 

stakeholders. Third, you may experience some latency or inconsistency in your profile data due 

to the asynchronous synchronization to the two storage providers. 

    Tip 

         Before allowing users to fail back to profiles in the primary location, be sure all users 

         have signed out successfully from the failover location to ensure the primary location 

         has an up to date replica of the user's profile data. 

         Cloud Cache is an I/O intensive system and can easily cause network and/or storage 

         bottlenecks to the restored location. 

----------------------- Page 227-----------------------

Figure 2: Cloud Cache (primary / failover) | FSLogix Cloud Cache (CCDLocations) 

In the diagram, we have a multi-region Host Pool utilizing Azure Virtual Desktop. Both the 

primary and failover regions are part of this setup. They each have a dedicated Azure Files 

share using zone-redundant storage (ZRS), ensuring high availability within the region. The 

failover region contains Session Hosts, which are either stopped or deallocated. In the event of 

a disaster, the failover region becomes the primary region. Users will sign in to these Session 

Hosts and load their replicated profile from the failover region. 

However, it’s essential to consider the following: 

       BCDR (Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery) events are rarely graceful. Depending 

       on the circumstances, user profile data may not be guaranteed to be intact. 

       Users signing in to Session Hosts in the failover region could experience data loss or, in 

       worse cases, container corruption. 

Given this situation, it’s crucial to use storage platforms like OneDrive or SharePoint for critical 

data. These platforms provide additional redundancy and protection against data loss. 

Remember, planning for disaster recovery is essential, and having the right storage strategy 

can mitigate risks and ensure business continuity. 

----------------------- Page 228-----------------------

Option 3: Cloud Cache (active / active) 

 ＂   Review: Cloud Cache Overview 

 ＂   Example: Advanced + Disaster Recovery (primary / failover) 

When discussing infrastructure, it is common to use active/active designs, which can also be 

applied to an FSLogix profile solution. With this option, Cloud Cache is set up with two storage 

providers that are updated asynchronously to reflect all changes made to the local cache. The 

storage provider closest to the active location is listed first, while the furthest provider is listed 

second. In the other location, the order is reversed. This option incurs additional costs for 

storing provider data in two locations and requires a manual decision by business stakeholders 

before initiating a failover. 

    Tip 

         When the failed region is operational, it may take significant time for the profile data 

         to fully replicate. 

         Cloud Cache is an I/O intensive system and can easily cause network and/or storage 

         bottlenecks to the restored location. 

----------------------- Page 229-----------------------

Figure 3: Cloud Cache (active / active) | FSLogix Cloud Cache (CCDLocations) 

In the diagram, are two (2) AVD Host Pools and Session Hosts residing in specific Azure 

regions. Users assigned to the West US region, access those virtual machines. Users in the East 

US region only access and are assigned to those virtual machines. During a disaster, the 

surviving region must have enough capacity to support all the users. Additionally, users from 

the failed region need access granted to the virtual machines in the surviving region. 

BCDR events are never graceful and depending on the circumstances of the event, user profile 

data isn't guaranteed to be intact. Users who sign-in to Session Hosts in the surviving region 

could experience data loss or at worse container corruption. This situation amplifies the need 

to use storage platforms like OneDrive or SharePoint for critical user data. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 230-----------------------

Configure Rule Set per-device licensing 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

Per-device licensing helps administrators manage their Rule Sets to be compliant with product 

license agreements. 

  ７ Note 

   Designed for software products that are licensed on a per-device basis. 

With per-device licensing you can: 

 ＂   Set a time-frame during which an assigned license can't be unassigned. 

 ＂   Record a time stamp of when a license was assigned to a device. 

 ＂   Record a time stamp of when a license was unassigned to a device. 

 ＂   Generate a report showing license usage over a specified time. 

 ＂  Warn the administrator when they attempt to unassign a license that hasn't been assigned 

     for the minimum time. 

Prerequisites 

      Review:  FSLogix Prerequisites. 

      Install:  FSLogix Apps and Apps RuleEditor. 

Changing Licensing Parameters 

The first step in using per-device licensing is to set a minimum number of days for a license to 

be assigned. This setting can be changed in the RuleEditor by clicking File then Change 

----------------------- Page 231-----------------------

Licensing Parameters and entering a value. This value is stored with the rule assignment file 

and is specific to each rule set. 

Figure 1: Licensing parameters 

The per-device licensing features are effective only after this step is complete. 

Editing Rule Assignments for Devices 

Per-device licensing is built with a more generic function that allows rules to be created based 

on environment variables. Rules can be created based on any environment variable at sign in. 

Devices are identified using the environment variable  CLIENTNAME that is set when a user signs 

in. 

   ７ Note 

   FSLogix does not create or manage environment variables and relies on other systems or 

   processes. 

Add per-device rule 

    1. Open FSLogix Apps RuleEditor. 

    2. Open an existing Rule Set file. 

    3. Select  Add . 

----------------------- Page 232-----------------------

       Figure 2: Add Environment Variable 

    4. Select Environment Variable in the rule assignment dialog. 

    5. Type  CLIENTNAME for the variable. 

    6. Type The  <client-name> in the value box. 

       Figure 3: Define the Environment Variable 

The wildcards,  ? and  *, may be used in the value field. 

Optionally, you can select the From File button and select a text file containing a list of device 

names, one item per line. A rule assignment is created for each device name from the file. 

----------------------- Page 233-----------------------

Making the rule assignment sets  Applies = No by default, indicates that a license has been 

assigned. 

   ７ Note 

   The logical on/off for a license being assigned is reversed from the logic of the application 

   rule set.  Applies = No indicates the rule doesn't apply to that device, the software is 

   visible to the user, and a license is assigned. 

If you attempt to set the assignment to Applies = Yes or to delete the assignment, and if it has 

been set to Applies=No for less than the minimum number of days for license assignment, 

then a warning dialog box appears. You can still delete the rule assignment, but the warning 

indicates that you may be doing something that violates your license agreements. 

Licensing Reports (retired) 

   ７ Note 

   The Application Rule Set license reporting feature is retired as of February 11, 2025 and is 

   no longer supported. Review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

A report can be generated to show the historical license assignments by selecting File then 

Licensing Report. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 234-----------------------

Application Rule Set Issues 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

   ） Important 

   Application Rule Sets require extensive knowledge of applications, file system, and registry 

   hives. FSLogix attempts to scan or discover an application and its dependencies. Deep 

   knowledge about where applications are installed and how they're presented as part of 

   Windows is required. 

Application rule set isn't applying 

Cause 1: Missing rule (.frx) and assignment (.fxa) files 

When you create a rule, two files are created: rule (.frx) and assignment (.fxa) files. After you're 

done with the desired settings, you need to copy the rules to every virtual machine where you 

want it applied. 

Solution 1: Deploy rule sets 

   ７ Note 

   Rule and assignment files placed in  %PROGRAMFILES%\FSLogix\Apps\Rules should be 

   compiled immediately. If not, check if the FSLogix Apps Service is enabled and running. 

----------------------- Page 235-----------------------

    1. Use any method to copy rule and assignment files to the rules directory 

      ( %PROGRAMFILES%\FSLogix\Apps\Rules). 

    2. Confirm the folder  %PROGRAMFILES%\FSLogix\Apps\CompiledRules contains the compiled 

      rule (.fxc) and assignment (.fxac) files. 

Cause 2: Incorrect assignments 

New rule sets have a default assignment. The assignment is for the built-in  Everyone group 

and is set for Rule Set does not apply to user/group. Unless otherwise specified, the rule set 

doesn't apply to any user. 

Solution 2: Manage rule set assignments 

For more information, see Rule Assignments in the  FSLogix Apps RuleEditor and Rule Sets 

how-to guide. 

Cause 3: Incorrect assignment order 

Assignments are evaluated and applied from top to bottom. Consider the following scenarios: 

      Scenario 1: The rules only apply to the members of  CONTOSO\TestUsers 

      Figure 1: Assignment order with group on bottom 

      Scenario 2: The rules apply to  Everyone, including  CONTOSO\TestUsers. 

----------------------- Page 236-----------------------

      Figure 2: Assignment order with group on top 

Solution 3: Manage rule set assignments 

For more information, see Rule Assignments in the  FSLogix Apps RuleEditor and Rule Sets 

how-to guide. 

Cause 4: Missing or conflicting group memberships 

A common cause for when a rule set isn't applying, is due to the user's group memberships. 

Users can be members of many groups and understanding that groups the rule set is applying 

to and the order they're applied affects the desired result. 

Solution 4: Verify and correct group memberships 

    1. As the signed in user, right-click Start. 

   2. Select Run, Type cmd and Select OK. 

   3. From the command prompt window, Type  whoami /groups. 

   4. Verify the group used for the assignment is listed in the output. 

----------------------- Page 237-----------------------

                                                                                                 

     Figure 3: Command prompt showing  whoami /groups output 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 238-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with AppX, MSIX or 
Microsoft store applications 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

Windows inbox applications (AppX) are missing or 
don't work correctly 

Many of the Windows inbox applications have been converted to AppX packages. AppX 

packages have a dependency on the AppReadiness service which works on behalf of the user 

to register these types of applications during the sign in process. Since a VDI user's sign in is 

technically a new sign in each time, the AppReadiness service doesn't have all the necessary 

information to properly set up the inbox applications, especially when those applications are 

upgraded between image or feature updates. 

Install or upgrade FSLogix to the latest version 

      How To Guide:  Install FSLogix applications 

FSLogix 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) and later versions provide new functionality to provide better 

compatibility with Windows inbox applications. Inbox applications refer to applications that are 

built in and ship preinstalled to Windows. Custom, third party, or Microsoft store applications 

are not considered inbox applications. 

  ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 239-----------------------

   FSLogix doesn't support or guarantee compatibility for custom, third party, or Microsoft 

   store applications. 

Use PowerShell to register AppX applications 

    1. Sign in to the computer or virtual machine as local Administrator or a user with 

      administrative rights. 

   2. Select Start and Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

   3. Select Run as Administrator under Windows PowerShell from the right-side Start Menu. 

      Figure 1: PowerShell run as administrator from Start Menu 

   4. Copy the PowerShell code and Paste it into the PowerShell window. 

----------------------- Page 240-----------------------

Review the list of applications in the  $AllUserInboxAppsKey and  $AllUserAppsKey 

registry locations. 

  PowerShell 

  $AllUserInboxAppsKey =  
  "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Appx\AppxAllUserStore\Inb 
  oxApplications" 
  $AllUserApps = Get-ChildItem -Path $AllUserInboxAppsKey 
  ForEach($Key in $AllUserApps) { 
      Add-AppxPackage -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register (Get-ItemProperty - 
  Path $Key.PsPath).Path 
  } 

  $AllUserAppsKey =  
  "HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Appx\AppxAllUserStore\App 
  lications" 
  $AllUserApps = Get-ChildItem -Path $AllUserAppsKey 
  ForEach($Key in $AllUserApps) { 
      Add-AppxPackage -DisableDevelopmentMode -Register (Get-ItemProperty - 
  Path $Key.PsPath).Path 
  } 

If there's a warning dialog when pasting into Windows PowerShell, Select  Paste 

anyway 

Figure 2: PowerShell paste warning 

----------------------- Page 241-----------------------

When using or switching to the new Microsoft 
Teams, users report the application is missing or 
has long load times 

New Microsoft Teams is an MSIX application that must be properly installed for all users. Users 

who have the ability to switch to new Microsoft Teams could install the application under their 

user context and not for all users. MSIX applications installed this way won't be preserved for 

the user when signing into different virtual machines and the applications might appear to be 

missing. Additionally, FSLogix cleans up the folders which aren't meant for roaming during sign 

out. 

Install new Microsoft Teams for all users or 'system-wide' 

Before allowing users to switch their Teams experience, review the Upgrade to new Teams for 

Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) article. 

Install or upgrade to FSLogix 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) 

FSLogix 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) or later provides special handling for new Teams in 

virtual desktops. 

   ７ Note 

        While registering new Teams by family name, the application is processed outside 

        the AppxManifest.xml file used by FSLogix and will add more time to the user sign- 

         in. 

            [19:29:03.845][tid:000008d0.00001c64][INFO] Installed MSTeams in 907ms 

My application data doesn't roam or is missing 
when signing into a new session 

MSIX applications store user data in  %LocalAppData%\Packages\<package-name>\ . As part of the 

2210 (2.9.8361.52326) release, we introduced the  InstallAppXPackages feature. Based on the 

UWP Reference API, there are a number of folders in the users profile that aren't designed for 

roaming. In collaboration with the UWP team, FSLogix discards the contents of these folders 

during the user's sign out. 

----------------------- Page 242-----------------------

Also review the profile excluded content for the full list of data that isn't roamed in the user's 

VHD(x) container. 

Nonroamable folders (not backed up) 

      AppData\Local\Packages\*\AC 

      AppData\Local\Packages\*\SystemAppData 

      AppData\Local\Packages\*\LocalCache 

      AppData\Local\Packages\*\TempState 

      AppData\Local\Packages\*\AppData 

   ） Important 

   The contents of these folders are deleted at sign out regardless of any redirections.xml 

   configuration. 

I have disabled  InstallAppXPackages, but some 
AppX applications are still installed or available to 
the user 

The  InstallAppXPackages setting isn't a global configuration for AppX application behavior in 

Windows. This setting ONLY affects how FSLogix attempts to preserve the user experience for 

these applications. AppX applications are managed by Windows and the AppReadiness service. 

FSLogix doesn't provide complete AppX application management capability. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 243-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with container 
attach or detach 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

Storage permissions 

Permissions to the storage provider are common issues. Verify the user can has read and write 

access to the SMB file share configured in  VHDLocations through browsing to the location and 

trying to create a folder or file. If the user CAN access the path in  VHDLocations, but can't read 

or write to the SMB file share then review our how to guide for configuring storage 

permissions. If the user can't access the path in  VHDLocations, then it could a network or DNS 

related issue. 

Container size 

In some cases, the user's container has reached the maximum size and without enough free 

space, the container fails to attach. 

   ７ Note 

   Increasing the  SizeInMBs value will affect all users with dynamic disks where configured. 

Verify the container size on disk 

   1. Check the  SizeInMBs setting on the virtual machine. 

----------------------- Page 244-----------------------

   2. Locate the user's container on the SMB file share. 

   3. Right-click the VHD(x) file and Select Properties. 

   4. Compare the  Size on disk value with the value from  SizeInMBs from the configuration 

      settings. 

   5. The container must have more than 200 MB to attach successfully. 

Increase the container size 

FSLogix automatically increase the size of the container when a larger value is used in the 

SizeInMBs value. Once the disk has been expanded, you can manually mount the container 

during off-hours and investigate what is consuming the most space. Deleting content from the 

user's container allows it to compact during sign out (2210 (2.9.8361.52326) or later versions). 

   ２ Warning 

   Deleting the wrong data from the user's container may lead to data loss or profile 

   corruption. 

3rd Party Firewall or Intrusion Prevention Systems 

(IPS) 

FSLogix is a file system virtualization product with two (2) Windows services and three (3) file 
system drivers. If there are 3rd party firewall or IPS applications installed on the same virtual 

machine as FSLogix, disabling those applications and reproducing the issue confirm if they're 

causing issues. 

FSLogix under most configurations relies on using SMB as the primary protocol for 

communicating with storage providers. In a Cloud Cache configuration, FSLogix can use HTTPS 

when connecting to Azure page blobs. 

Additionally, review our recommended list of exclusions to ensure there are no conflicts. 

Network or DNS issues 

FSLogix has a critical dependency many resources like network and DNS resolution. Users may 

encounter errors attaching their containers when the virtual machine is unable to communicate 

or resolve the name of the UNC path. 

      Test access to the storage provider from a different virtual machine. 

      Use  Test-NetConnection to verify name resolution and protocol access: 

----------------------- Page 245-----------------------

1. Select Start and Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

2. Select Windows PowerShell from the Start Menu. 

   Figure 1: PowerShell in Start Menu 

3. In the PowerShell window, Type: 

      Test-NetConnection -ComputerName <server-fully-qualified-domain-name> - 

      CommonTCPPort SMB 

                                                                                           

----------------------- Page 246-----------------------

            Figure 2: PowerShell Test-NetConnection output 

Storage provider space issues 

FSLogix relies on remote storage providers to store user containers. It's important to closely 

monitor your storage provider(s) for both performance and overall storage capacity. If the 

storage provider has reached it max size, users may encounter one or more issues: 

      Users can't create new containers and end up with a temporary or local profile. 

      Current user session becomes hung or unresponsive. 

      Users fail to mount or correctly detach containers during sign in or sign out. 

Solution 

Increase the capacity of the remote storage provider. 

Container in use or locked in another session 

The default configuration of FSLogix prohibits a user from using their container in more than a 

single connection. When this situation is paired with the  PreventLogonWithFailure setting, 

users can't sign in and receive an error from the FSLogix shell ( frxshell.exe). FSLogix 

maintains an exclusive lock on the user's container while they're connected to a virtual machine 

and concurrent connections is disabled. Concurrent access is supported and you should review 

the concept article, here. 

Recommendation 

      Review: Troubleshooting issues with container locked or in use 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 247-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with container 
corruption or missing data 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

  default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

  access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

  Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage      . 

Properly configure Anti-virus products with 
excluded files and folders 

Anti-virus products are one of the most common occurrences of container corruption. If an 

Anti-virus product is scanning or processing data into or out of the container, it can lead to 

corruption. 

Recommendations 

      Review: Configure Antivirus file and folder exclusions 

Exercise caution when excluding directories using 
redirections.xml 

It can be tempting to exclude data from a profile or ODFC container in order to conserve 

capacity on the remote storage provider. The folders that make up a user's profile aren't 

random and should be treated with care. Limiting or exercising restraint when choosing which 

folders to exclude from a user's profile prevents unexpected results from a misconfigured 

redirections.xml file. 

Recommendations 

----------------------- Page 248-----------------------

     Review: Custom profile redirections.xml 

     Tutorial: Create and implement redirections.xml 

     Keep your redirections.xml file simple. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 249-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with container 
locked or in use 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

Clean up invalid sessions 

In some configurations, user sessions are signed out and a process or application prevents a 

proper sign out operation. This can leave artifacts on the file system or registry. During a sign 

in operation, these artifacts prevent the container from detaching and new sign ins are 

blocked. This can also occur if the session is terminated abruptly. 

Recommendations 

      There could be an operational issue in the environment. Prioritize any environmental or 

      system issues that help solve the root cause versus the symptom. 

      Setting: Enable CleanupInvalidSessions 

Concurrent or multiple connections to a single 
container 

The default configuration of FSLogix prohibits a user from using their container in more than a 

single connection. When this situation is paired with the  PreventLogonWithFailure setting, 

users can't sign in and receive an error from the FSLogix shell ( frxshell.exe). FSLogix 

maintains an exclusive lock on the user's container while they're connected to a virtual machine 

and concurrent connections is disabled. Concurrent or multiple connections are supported in 

some configurations. 

----------------------- Page 250-----------------------

Recommendation 

      Review: Concurrent or multiple connections to a single container 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 251-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with container size 
or low disk space 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

  default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

  access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

  Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

  hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage      . 

  ） Important 

  Similar symptoms will appear when the SMB file share has no free space. Be sure to check 

  the file share and setup monitoring to alert when there is less than 20% of free space 

   remaining. 

Use the VHD disk compaction feature to shrink the 
container 

In 2210 (2.9.8361.52623) and later versions of FSLogix, VHD disk compaction is enabled by 

default. Upgrading to the latest version  of FSLogix adds the VHD disk compaction operation 

to the sign out process and reduces the storage inside the user's containers. 

Recommendation 

     Review: VHD Disk Compaction 

Increase SizeInMBs to larger value 

----------------------- Page 252-----------------------

In some cases, the user's container is warning of low disk space or has reached the maximum 

size. 

   ７ Note 

   Increasing the  SizeInMBs value will affect all users with dynamic disks where configured. 

Verify the container size on disk 

    1. Check the  SizeInMBs setting on the virtual machine. 

    2. Locate the user's container on the SMB file share. 

    3. Right-click the VHD(x) file and Select Properties. 

   4. Compare the  Size on disk value with the value from  SizeInMBs from the configuration 

      settings. 

Increase the container size 

FSLogix automatically increases the size of the container when a larger value is used in the 

SizeInMBs value. Once the disk as been expanded, you can manually mount the container 

during off-hours and investigate what is consuming the most space. Deleting content from the 

                                         1 
user's container allows it to compact  during sign out. 

1 VHD disk compaction requires version 2210 (2.9.8361.52623) or later. 

   ２ Warning 

   Deleting the wrong data from the user's container could lead to data loss or profile 

   corruption. 

Delete local profiles on the virtual machine 

Implementing FSLogix profile containers on virtual machines with existing local profiles doesn't 

automatically remove the local profiles. 

Recommendation 

Enable the DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply setting. 

   ２ Warning 

----------------------- Page 253-----------------------

   Before enabling the  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply setting, users with local 

   profiles must ensure all their data is saved external to their profile to ensure they don't 

   lose the data when it is deleted. 

Using redirections.xml exclusions doesn't remove 
existing profile data 

Implementing the redirections.xml file to exclude content for existing FSLogix profiles doesn't 

remove or delete the exclusion from the user's profile. 

Recommendations 

      Delete the user's profile container. 

      Create a script to run after sign in or part of the sign in process to delete the content 

      from the container. 

  ７ Note 

   FSLogix doesn't have tools or features to remove this data from the container. 

  Ｕ Caution 

   Deleting a profile or content from a container may lead to unexpected data loss. 

Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings 

      Review: Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings 

      Review: Use OneDrive Files On-Demand 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 254-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with FSLogix 
services (frxsvc or frxccds) 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

Service crash 

Having the frxsvc or  frxccds service crash can cause issues for users during sign in and 

during their sessions. FSLogix hotfix updates are the primary way we release fixes and changes 

that affect issues related to service crashes. 

Recommendations 

     Always upgrade to the latest version     of FSLogix and review the  release notes. 

      Open a support request to report the issue and have the crash analyzed. 

Properly configure Anti-virus products with 
excluded files and folders 

Anti-virus products are one of the most common occurrences of container corruption. If an 

Anti-virus product is scanning or processing data into or out of the container, it can lead to 

corruption. 

Recommendations 

      Review: Configure Antivirus file and folder exclusions 

----------------------- Page 255-----------------------

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 256-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with Group Policy 
processing 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

  default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

  access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

  Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage     . 

The Group Policy Client service failed the sign-in. 
Access is denied 

This error and message is a known issue in previous versions of FSLogix. 

Solution 

Upgrade to the latest version   of FSLogix and review the  release notes. 

Group Policies are not applied to virtual machines 
as expected 

Group Policy requires the virtual machine has line of sight and can communicate with an Active 

Directory (AD) domain controller. There are various reason for a virtual machine to lose 

communication with a domain controller. This article doesn't provide the steps to solve these 

communications issues. Once communication is restored, the virtual machine should process 

the Group Policy settings as expected. 

Solution 

Resolve communication issues between the virtual machine and the AD domain controller(s). 

----------------------- Page 257-----------------------

Remote Desktop Services settings are not available 
in Group Policy Management 

Remote Desktop Services policies in Group Policy Management require specific ADMX and 

ADML files exist in the central store. The files should exist in the central store to configure 

policies for Remote Desktop Services. 

      C:\Windows\SYSVOL\domain\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\TerminalServer.admx 

      C:\Windows\SYSVOL\domain\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\terminalserver-server.admx 

      C:\Windows\SYSVOL\domain\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\[MUICulture]\TerminalServer.adml 

      C:\Windows\SYSVOL\domain\Policies\PolicyDefinitions\[MUICulture]\terminalserver- 

      server.adml 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 258-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with hung sessions 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

Network or DNS issues 

FSLogix has a critical dependency many resources like network and DNS resolution. A user's 

session can appear hung or unresponsive when the virtual machine is unable to communicate 

or resolve the name of the UNC path for their container. If communication is restored during 

the user's session, then their session returns to normal operations. 

      Test access to the storage provider from a different virtual machine. 

      Use  Test-NetConnection to verify name resolution and protocol access: 

         1. Select Start and Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

         2. Select Windows PowerShell from the Start Menu. 

----------------------- Page 259-----------------------

            Figure 1: PowerShell in Start Menu 

         3. In the PowerShell window, Type: 

               Test-NetConnection -ComputerName <server-fully-qualified-domain-name> - 

               CommonTCPPort SMB 

                                                                                                           

            Figure 1: PowerShell Test-NetConnection output 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 260-----------------------

FSLogix FAQ 

The FSLogix FAQ provides information related to the installation, configuration, operation and 

supportability of FSLogix in virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI). 

Installation 

Is FSLogix integrated into all Windows operating 
systems? 

FSLogix isn't a Windows feature and must be installed separately. FSLogix can be found in the 

Azure Marketplace for Windows 10 and Windows 11 multi-session images. While we aim for 

this version of FSLogix to be 'up-to-date', customers should verify which version is installed. If 

necessary, upgrade to the latest version. 

Does FSLogix update automatically or use Windows 
Update? 

No, FSLogix must be updated manually or through your existing image creation process. 

Subscribe and follow the FSLogix Blog  to keep updated on when new versions are released. 

Does FSLogix provide incremental updates? 

No, FSLogix releases are full versions of the product. 

Do I need to uninstall FSLogix before installing a 
new version? 

Depends. If you need to go to a previous version, you should uninstall FSLogix, reboot, then 

install the previous version. Updated versions can be installed on top of the older version and 

requires a reboot. 

What versions of FSLogix are supported? 

Microsoft only supports the latest version of FSLogix. See our product support page. 

Containers 

----------------------- Page 261-----------------------

Does the size of the FSLogix container affect the 
sign in performance? 

No, container size doesn't affect sign in times or performance. Other factors are much more 

important when troubleshooting long sign in times. 

What is the behavior when an FSLogix container 
reaches or exceeds the `SizeInMBs` value? 

Users may start to experience strange behavior with applications or accessing files due to the 

lack of storage in the container. Increasing the  SizeInMBs setting will automatically increase the 

size of the container at the next sign in when using dynamic disks. To prevent these situations, 

you should plan for at least 30% free space. Monitor the event logs or log files for warning 

events at less than 2 GB and less than 500-MB free space. 

Do I need to use the ODFC container when using 
Microsoft 365 applications? 

No, The ODFC container is primarily used in VDI solutions where another roaming profile 

product is used. Always use a single profile container unless your business or workload 

requirements need the separation. Check out the Types of Containers article for more 

information. 

How do I configure OneDrive with FSLogix? 

FSLogix handles all the complexity (filesystem redirection) behind the scenes. When a user 

signs in to OneDrive and must choose a location, they should select the default location 

( C:\Users\%username%\). FSLogix uses this location and all the data is saved to the user's 

container. Review the following OneDrive documentation: 

      Use the sync app on virtual desktops 

      Silently configure user accounts 

      Redirect and move Windows known folders to OneDrive 

      Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings 

Do OneDrive policies monitor the FSLogix VHD size 
or the local disk size? 

----------------------- Page 262-----------------------

When using FSLogix for profiles or profile and ODFC containers are in use, the OneDrive disk 

space policies check the FSLogix VHD rather than the operating system disk. 

Figure 1: OneDrive disk space warning policy object 

----------------------- Page 263-----------------------

Figure 2: ODFC VHD Properties 

----------------------- Page 264-----------------------

Figure 3: OneDrive Warning - Low Disk Space 

Can I migrate user profile data from other roaming 
profile solutions to an FSLogix container? 

FSLogix doesn't provide a direct migration path from other roaming profile solutions. 

Implementing OneDrive with known folder move or similar cloud or network storage solutions 

provides users with a location to save their data outside of their profile. For smaller use cases, 

our frx command-line utility can help copy local profiles into a new VHD(x). 

Can I convert from a single profile container to a 
profile and ODFC container configuration? 

----------------------- Page 265-----------------------

Yes. When the ODFC container is created, FSLogix copies the data from the profile container 

though the original data isn't removed. The original data must be removed manually. 

Example ODFC log file entries: 

  Console 

  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirroring  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive to \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb- 
  0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CopyFolderToVolume: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  OneDrive\UserMeta Volume: \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Creating mount point:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff} -> \\? 
  \Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success creating mount point.  
  Mirroring files... 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory:  
  C:\Windows\system32\robocopy.exe  
  "C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive"  
  "C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta"  
  /MT /R:5 /W:1 /XJD /COPYALL /IT /B /DCOPY:DAT /MIR 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CreateProcess successful 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Enabling cloud files pass- 
  through 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Waiting for process to end 
  [18:10:00.460][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Robocopy exit code: 1  
  (Success) 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success mirroring files 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Volume mount point removed 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirror complete 

Microsoft Entra ID 

Can a user change their password while connected 
to a VDI session with an FSLogix container attached 
for their profile? 

Users may change their passwords under the following scenarios: 

      The virtual machine is either joined to Active Directory or Entra hybrid joined AND it has 

      line of sight to a domain controller. 

      The user is an Entra hybrid identity (synced from an Active Directory). 

----------------------- Page 266-----------------------

      The user changes their password during sign in to Windows (Administrator checked the 

      box to change password at next logon). 

      The user changes their password within their VDI session using Ctrl+Alt+Del or 

      Ctrl+Alt+End. 

Users signed into Entra joined virtual machines or using Entra only identities are not supported 

for password changes with an active VDI session using an FSLogix container. Users must be 

fully signed out of any sessions with an FSLogix container, then they can change their 

password. Once changed they can sign into their VDI session. 

Can I use FSLogix containers with Microsoft Entra ID 
and cloud-only identities? 

Yes...BUT, it requires understanding of the risks. There are two (2) ways we've identified how to 

configure FSLogix for Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities. Check out the  FSLogix 

profile containers for Microsoft Entra ID cloud only identities  blog article. 

Can I use FSLogix application rule sets with 
 Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities? 

 No. Application rule sets only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine has line of sight to a Domain Controller. 

Can I use object specific settings with Microsoft 
 Entra ID cloud-only identities or Microsoft Entra 
joined vir tual machines and hybrid identities? 

 No. Object specific settings only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine is hybrid Entra joined. 

Can I use the same Profile container when switching 
from hybrid Entra joined to Entra joined Session 
 Hosts or virtual machines using hybrid identities? 

 No. The user's SID changes to their 'cloud-based' SID when signing into a computer that is 

 Entra joined which prevents the profile from loading correctly. 

 Redirects or redirections.xml 

----------------------- Page 267-----------------------

What are the recommended values for the 
redirections.xml file? 

FSLogix doesn't provide recommended values for the redirections.xml file. The redirections.xml 

file is a powerful tool to help you manage the user's profile AND may cause problems if not 

used correctly. We rely on application owners to document what data can or can't be excluded 

from user's profile container. 

For example: 

      Classic Teams: Classic Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure 

      New Teams: Upgrade to new Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) 

    Tip 

   Don't exclude user profile data for applications unless the application owner has 

   documented the data can be excluded. 

I don't see the redirections.xml events in the log file. 

If you don't see any entries in the log file as described in the tutorial, it's most common to be 

one of three things: 

      The  RedirXMLSourceFolder contains the full filename path. 

      The user doesn't have read access to the file share location. 

      The path to the file share can't be found (network, DNS or bad name). 

The include statement isn't working as expected. 

The include statement is used to keep sub directories of excluded folders in the user's profile. 

The include statement only works if the data or folder exists in the profile  BEFORE creating the 

include statement. It's common for applications to create these folders at their initial launch. 

This can cause problems if the user gets a new profile and the data doesn't exist until the 

application is launched. 

    Tip 

   Don't include this type of data in your XML file. 

----------------------- Page 268-----------------------

What is the limit of exclude and include statements 
for the redirections.xml file? 

There isn't a technical limitation. Less is more. Adding redirections for small folders doesn't 

benefit the user's experience. Having numerous exclude or include statements causes a 

performance issue because each file system request must be checked against the list of 

redirections. These file system operations add up and decrease the virtual machine's overall 

performance. 

After I implemented redirections.xml, the user's 
container stayed the same size or grew larger. 

Implementing the redirections.xml file to exclude content for existing FSLogix profiles doesn't 

remove or delete the exclusion from the user's profile. You need to delete the profile container 

or create a script to run after sign in or part of the sign in process to delete the content from 

the container. 

VHD disk compaction 

Why is VHD disk compaction not running or not 
recovering the space I expect? 

   1. Check the profile or ODFC log files for errors or warnings. 

   2. Review the concept article for VHD disk compaction. 

How do I adjust the disk compaction threshold? 

The threshold isn't configurable. 

Can the message during sign out be customized? 

No, the message during sign out is a built-in Windows process that can't be changed. 

What happens if a user disconnects during the sign 
out and tries to reconnect? 

The disconnected session continues the sign out process, including compaction. If the 

compaction process isn't complete by the time the user tries to reconnect, the disk is in use. 

----------------------- Page 269-----------------------

The user experience depends on your other configuration settings. Under default conditions, 

the user is signed in with a temporary profile. 

How does disk compaction work with Cloud Cache? 

During the sign out phase, all content in the disk is brought down from one of the providers to 

the local VHD(x) disk. Then the disk is evaluated for compaction. If or when compaction 

completes, the local VHD(x) is uploaded to the Cloud Cache provider(s). This process causes 

the sign out process to take longer in this type of configuration, which could lead to a poor 

user experience. 

Cloud Cache 

Do I need to use Cloud Cache for high availability? 

No. It can be an acceptable solution to use standard containers (VHDLocations) with a highly 

available storage provider. Azure Files provides high availability through zone-redundant 

storage (ZRS) and is a recommended storage provider. 

Why does it take so long for users to sign out? 

Cloud Cache performs lazy asynchronous updates to the remote storage providers during a 

user's session. These operations aren't real-time and are subject to the latency and throughput 

of the network and storage providers. At sign out, Cloud Cache attempts to merge all the data 

from the local cache to ALL storage providers listed. Storage providers which are under 

performing or have high latency will take longer to merge. FSLogix holds the user's sign out 

until the operation is complete. 

Recommendations 

      Review your network topology and latency to all configured storage providers 

      Upgrade your storage provider to a higher performing tier 

      Disable VHDCompactDisk 

      Don't use  ProfileType = 3 or  VHDAccessMode = 1, 2, or 3 

----------------------- Page 270-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with long or failed 
sign-ins 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

Virtual machine has too many users or is too small 
for the workload 

Virtual desktop environments allow multiple user sessions per machine, which provides a good 

cost benefit ratio. It's important to know the size (vCPU and Memory) and the OS disk 

performance characteristics as they're critical factors when deciding how many simultaneous 

users are on a single virtual machine. FSLogix does require network and performance of the 

virtual machine to operate. If your users are complaining about long sign ins, reviewing the 

virtual machines performance is a great place to start. 

   ） Important 

   Cloud Cache places an even greater performance load on the virtual machine. Size your 

   virtual machines appropriately, starting with a 2:1 ratio (vCPU to user). 

Recommendations 

      Review and understand the user density and workload placed on your virtual machines. 

      Reduce the number of simultaneous sessions per virtual machine. 

      Increase the virtual machine family or size based on user workloads. 

----------------------- Page 271-----------------------

Container size 

In some cases, the user's container has reached the maximum size and without enough free 

space, the container fails to attach. 

   ７ Note 

   Increasing the  SizeInMBs value will affect all users with dynamic disks where configured. 

Verify the container size on disk 

    1. Check the  SizeInMBs setting on the virtual machine. 

   2. Locate the user's container on the SMB file share. 

    3. Right-click the VHD(x) file and Select Properties. 

   4. Compare the  Size on disk value with the value from  SizeInMBs from the configuration 

      settings. 

    5. The container must have more than 200 MB to attach successfully. 

Increase the container size 

FSLogix automatically increases the size of the container when a larger value is used in the 

SizeInMBs value. Once the disk as been expanded, you can manually mount the container 

during off-hours and investigate what is consuming the most space. Deleting content from the 

                                         1 
user's container allows it to compact  during sign out. 

1 VHD disk compaction requires version 2210 (2.9.8361.52623) or later. 

   ２ Warning 

   Deleting the wrong data from the user's container could lead to data loss or profile 

   corruption. 

3rd Party Firewall or Intrusion Prevention Systems 

(IPS) 

FSLogix is a file system virtualization product with two (2) Windows services and three (3) file 
system drivers. If there are 3rd party firewall or IPS applications installed on the same virtual 

----------------------- Page 272-----------------------

machine as FSLogix, disabling those applications and reproducing the issue confirm if they're 

causing issues. 

FSLogix under most configurations relies on using SMB as the primary protocol for 

communicating with storage providers. In a Cloud Cache configuration, FSLogix can use HTTPS 

when connecting to Azure page blobs. 

Additionally, review our recommended list of exclusions to ensure there are no conflicts. 

Network or DNS issues 

FSLogix has a critical dependency many resources like network and DNS resolution. Users may 

encounter errors attaching their containers when the virtual machine is unable to communicate 

or resolve the name of the UNC path. 

      Test access to the storage provider from a different virtual machine. 

      Use  Test-NetConnection to verify name resolution and protocol access: 

         1. Select Start and Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

         2. Select Windows PowerShell from the Start Menu. 

----------------------- Page 273-----------------------

           Figure 1: PowerShell in Start Menu 

         3. In the PowerShell window, Type: 

               Test-NetConnection -ComputerName <server-fully-qualified-domain-name> - 

              CommonTCPPort SMB 

                                                                                                 

           Figure 2: PowerShell Test-NetConnection output 

Storage provider space issues 

----------------------- Page 274-----------------------

FSLogix relies on remote storage providers to store user containers. It's important to closely 

monitor your storage provider(s) for both performance and overall storage capacity. If the 

storage provider has reached its max size, users may encounter one or more issues: 

      Users can't create new containers and end up with a temporary or local profile. 

      Current user session becomes hung or unresponsive. 

      Users fail to mount or correctly detach containers during sign in or sign out. 

Solution 

Increase the capacity of the remote storage provider. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 275-----------------------

Configure obj ect specific container settings 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

Configuration settings for profile containers and ODFC containers are applied at the computer 

or virtual machine level. These system-wide settings can be overridden using the object specific 

settings that apply to individual users or groups. Using object specific settings allows an 

organization to have a baseline configuration while providing a more unique or granular 

setting for a specific user or group. 

Setting prioritization: 

   1. Object specific (user) 

   2. Object specific (group) 

   3. System-wide settings (default) 

  ７ Note 

        Object specific settings can't be configured using Group Policy template files. 

        Object specific settings don't support Microsoft Entra ID (cloud-only identities). 

Use PowerShell to translate user or group names to 
security identifiers (SID) 

From any Active Directory (AD) domain joined computer, you can use PowerShell to translate a 

given domain and user or group name to the SID value. 

   1. Sign in to an AD joined computer or virtual machine. 

----------------------- Page 276-----------------------

2. Select Start. 

3. Type  notepad directly into the Start Menu. 

4. Select Notepad from the Start Menu. 

5. Copy the PowerShell code to Notepad. 

     PowerShell 

         $DomainName = "%domainname%" 
         $Username = "%username%" 
         $UserObject = New-Object  
     System.Security.Principal.NTAccount($DomainName,$Username) 
          
     $UserObject.Translate([System.Security.Principal.SecurityIdentifier]).Value 

----------------------- Page 277-----------------------

6. Replace the values for  $DomainName and  $Username with your own values. 

7. Select Start. 

8. Type  powershell directly into the Start Menu. 

9. Select Windows PowerShell from the Start Menu. 

----------------------- Page 278-----------------------

  10. Copy the edited syntax into the PowerShell window. 

           If there's a warning dialog when pasting into Windows PowerShell, Select  Paste 

           anyway . 

  11. Press Enter to see the SID for the user or group. 

Create an obje ct specific setting for  VHDLocations 

  ７ Note 

  This is one example for an object specific configuration. Any of the settings for profiles or 

  ODFC can be created under an object specific configuration. 

Using an object specific VHDLocations setting allows specific users or groups to create and 

mount their profiles from various SMB file shares. 

----------------------- Page 279-----------------------

1. Sign in to the virtual machine as the local Administrator account or an account that is a 

   member of the local Administrators group. 

2. Type  registry editor in the Search box. 

3. Select Registry Editor from the Start Menu. 

4. Go to: 

         HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles (profile container) 

         HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC (ODFC container) 

----------------------- Page 280-----------------------

 5. Select Edit -> New -> Key. 

 6. Type ObjectSpecific and press Enter. 

 7. Select Edit -> New -> Key again. 

 8. Type or paste the SID from step 11 in Use PowerShell to translate user or group names to 

    security identifiers (SID). 

 9. Select the new Key with the SID value. 

10. Create a new REG_SZ Value Name for  VHDLocations. 

----------------------- Page 281-----------------------

You can verify that the setting is taking effect by examining the log files. Search the log file for 

the  ObjectSpecific key word and locate the entry showing the configuration was read 

successfully. 

Example: 

 Configuration Read (REG_SZ): SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\ObjectSpecific\S-1-5-21- 

0000000000-0000000000-0000000000-1234\VHDLocations. Data: \\<server-name>\<share-name> 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 282-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with SMB file share 
open handles 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

FSLogix doesn't allow concurrent or multiple connections to a user's container in a default 

configuration. When a user is abruptly disconnected from their session or the session didn't 

sing out correctly, the SMB connection to the user's container may not be removed correctly. 

Azure files open handles 

      Verify the user has successfully signed out from all sessions configured to use the user's 

      container. 

         Use  qwinsta from Windows Terminal or Command Prompt. 

         Use Task Manager, then go to the Users tab. 

      Review: Orphaned file handles or leases - Azure Files 

Windows file share open handles 

      Verify the user has successfully signed out from all sessions configured to use the user's 

      container. 

         Use  qwinsta from Windows Terminal or Command Prompt 

         Use Task Manager, then go to the Users tab. 

      Open Computer Management on the Windows server. 

      Expand Shared Folders. 

      Select Open Files. 

      Find the open file to the user's container. 

      Right-click and Close Open File. 

----------------------- Page 283-----------------------

Azure NetApp Files open handles 

      Review: Can I manage SMB Shares, Sessions, and Open Files through Microsoft 

      Management Console (MMC)? 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 284-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with old, 
temporary, or local profiles 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

In general, the root cause of a user's issue isn't with FSLogix when they experience issues with 

old, temporary, or local profiles. In most cases, these issues can be resolved without the need 

to create a support request. We've outlined the most common causes and solutions to these 

issues. 

FSLogix product isn't enabled 

After you install FSLogix, none of the features or configuration settings are enabled. Depending 

on the configuration, the Profiles and / or ODFC container feature must be enabled. 

Solution 

Review the articles that cover how to enable and configure FSLogix profile or ODFC containers. 

      Tutorial: Configure profile containers 

      Tutorial: Configure ODFC containers 

      How-To: Use Group Policy templates 

Incorrect settings in VHDLocations or 
CCDLocations 

VHDLocations are used with standard containers while CCDLocations are used with Cloud 

Cache containers. In either configuration, the values for these settings (registry or Group Policy) 

----------------------- Page 285-----------------------

must be populated correctly. Additionally, the virtual machines with FSLogix installed and 

enabled, must be able to access the locations. 

Solution 

   1. On the virtual machine, open the registry editor. 

   2. Find the following key(s) for your configuration: 

            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles 

            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC 

   3. Validate the value and type for  VHDLocations or  CCDLocations is present with either type 

      REG_SZ (preferred) or type REG_MULTI_SZ. 

   4. The REG_SZ value for  VHDLocations with multiple entries, requires semi-colon delimiting. 

  ７ Note 

   Access to the locations should be validated by a test user before use in a production 

   environment. 

Users don't have access to the storage provider 
(permissions) 

Configuring permissions to a storage provider is one of the most common misconfigured 

settings for an FSLogix solution. Depending on the storage provider, there are NTFS access 

control lists (ACLs), share-level permissions, or Azure role-based access control (RBAC) 

permissions. Depending on the configuration, a user might be prevented from signing into a 

virtual machine. 

----------------------- Page 286-----------------------

Figure 1: Profile failed to attach - access denied 

Profile log errors 

  Console 

  [ERROR:00000005]   Attach vhd(x) failed, file is locked.  Retrying 3 time(s) at 15  
  second intervals (Access is denied.) 
  [ERROR:00000005]   Failed to attach VHD. (Access is denied.) 
  [ERROR:00000005]   Failed to attach virtual disk: \\<server-name>\<share- 
  name>\%username%-%sid%\Profile_%username%.vhdx (Access is denied.) 
  [ERROR:00000005]   LoadProfile failed. Version: 2.9.8440.42104 User: %username%.  
  SID: %sid%. SessionId: 10. FrxStatus: 31 (Access is denied.) 

Solution 

Review the article that covers configuring storage permissions. 

      How-To: Configure SMB Storage Permissions 

Profile is in use on another computer 

In a default configuration, FSLogix allows single user sessions to the same profile container and 

allows temporary profiles. If a user attempts to connect to a different virtual machine that is 

configured to use the same profile container and they don't sign out from the original session, 

----------------------- Page 287-----------------------

they get a temporary profile. Enabling the  PreventLoginWithTempProfile setting effectively 

prevents the user from signing into the virtual machine while their profile container is in use. 

Figure 2: Profile failed to attach - profile in use 

Profile log errors 

  Console 

  [ERROR:000000a7]   Operation 'AcquireExclusiveLock' failed.  Retrying %x time(s) at  
  %y second intervals (Unable to lock a region of a file.) 
  [INFO]             Status set to 1: Cannot load user's profile 
  [INFO]             ErrorCode set to 33 - Message: The process cannot access the  
  file because another process has locked a portion of the file. 
  [ERROR:00000021]   LoadProfile failed. Version: 2.9.8430.30244 User: %username%.  
  SID: %sid%. SessionId: 2. FrxStatus: 33 (The process cannot access the file because  
  another process has locked a portion of the file.) 

Solution 

Each organization needs to evaluate what is the correct course of action for these types of 

situations. In some cases, allowing a user to sign in with a temporary profile and allowing them 

to work could be better than denying the sign-in attempt. In other situations, educating the 

users so they learn to sign out of their sessions before starting a new connection. The last 

option is to enable multiple or concurrent connections while using FSLogix. 

Local profile exists 

----------------------- Page 288-----------------------

When FSLogix is install on a virtual machine where existing profiles exist, the default behavior is 

to honor the local profile instead of creating or looking for an FSLogix profile. This issue would 

present itself when a user signs into a virtual machine where they don't have a local profile and 

FSLogix is enabled. The user would get an FSLogix profile and it would appear like a new 

profile. 

Solution 

Enabling the  DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply setting will, at sign-in, delete the local 

profile and create or attach the FSLogix profile container. 

   ２ Warning 

   It is recommended to use caution and review which local profiles exist before enabling the 

   DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply setting to limit the exposure of data loss. 

Temp or local profile when 
 PreventLoginWithFailure or 
 PreventLoginWithTempProfile is enabled 

FSLogix uses frxshell.exe to replace the standard Windows  shell.exe when configured to 

prevent a user's sign-in when their profile fails to attach or a temporary Windows profile. User's 

who use a remote application versus a full desktop experience won't be blocked from signing 

in. Remote applications don't call the standard Windows  shell.exe and FSLogix is unable to 

hook to the direct application during sign-in. 

Profile error logs 

   ７ Note 

   The error could vary based on why the profile failed to load. For example, 'Access denied' 

  Console 

  [09:33:09.168][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]             Configuration Read (DWORD):  
  SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\PreventLoginWithFailure.  Data: 1 
  [09:33:09.168][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]             Configuration Read (DWORD):  
  SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\PreventLoginWithTempProfile.  Data: 1 
  ... 

----------------------- Page 289-----------------------

  [09:33:09.543][tid:00000c58.0000140c][ERROR:0000052e]   FindFile failed for path:  
  \\<server-name>\<share-name>\%sid%_%username%\Profile*.VHDX (The user name or  
  password is incorrect.) 
  [09:33:09.543][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]             Status set to 27: Cannot  
  find virtual disk at the provided location 
  [09:33:09.543][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]             ErrorCode set to 1326 -  
  Message: The user name or password is incorrect. 
  ... 
  [09:33:09.543][tid:00000c58.0000140c][ERROR:0000052e]   LoadProfile failed.  
  Version: 2.9.8440.42104 User: %username%. SID: %sid%. SessionId: 2. FrxStatus: 31  
  (The user name or password is incorrect.) 
  [09:33:09.543][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]             loadProfile time: 391  
  milliseconds 
  ... 
  [09:33:17.215][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]           ===== Begin Session:  
  StartShell 
  [09:33:17.215][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]            User: %sid% (%username%) 
  ... 
  [09:33:17.246][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]            No FSLogix user session info  
  found for user %sid%. This is not a profile we should handle 
  [09:33:17.246][tid:00000c58.0000140c][INFO]            Session configuration read  
  (DWORD): SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles\Sessions\%sid%\LogonStage = '5'(Logon_Complete) 

Solution 

This is a known issue with no current workaround. Under most circumstances, user's failed to 

load their profile due to storage permissions. Review our how-to article on Configuring SMB 

storage permissions. 

Storage provider space issues 

FSLogix relies on remote storage providers to store user containers. It's important to closely 

monitor your storage provider(s) for both performance and overall storage capacity. If the 

storage provider has reached it max size, users may encounter one or more issues: 

      Users can't create new containers and end up with a temporary or local profile. 

      Current user session becomes hung or unresponsive. 

      Users fail to mount or correctly detach containers during sign in or sign out. 

Solution 

Increase the capacity of the remote storage provider. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 290-----------------------

FSLogix FAQ 

The FSLogix FAQ provides information related to the installation, configuration, operation and 

supportability of FSLogix in virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI). 

Installation 

Is FSLogix integrated into all Windows operating 
systems? 

FSLogix isn't a Windows feature and must be installed separately. FSLogix can be found in the 

Azure Marketplace for Windows 10 and Windows 11 multi-session images. While we aim for 

this version of FSLogix to be 'up-to-date', customers should verify which version is installed. If 

necessary, upgrade to the latest version. 

Does FSLogix update automatically or use Windows 
Update? 

No, FSLogix must be updated manually or through your existing image creation process. 

Subscribe and follow the FSLogix Blog  to keep updated on when new versions are released. 

Does FSLogix provide incremental updates? 

No, FSLogix releases are full versions of the product. 

Do I need to uninstall FSLogix before installing a 
new version? 

Depends. If you need to go to a previous version, you should uninstall FSLogix, reboot, then 

install the previous version. Updated versions can be installed on top of the older version and 

requires a reboot. 

What versions of FSLogix are supported? 

Microsoft only supports the latest version of FSLogix. See our product support page. 

Containers 

----------------------- Page 291-----------------------

Does the size of the FSLogix container affect the 
sign in performance? 

No, container size doesn't affect sign in times or performance. Other factors are much more 

important when troubleshooting long sign in times. 

What is the behavior when an FSLogix container 
reaches or exceeds the `SizeInMBs` value? 

Users may start to experience strange behavior with applications or accessing files due to the 

lack of storage in the container. Increasing the  SizeInMBs setting will automatically increase the 

size of the container at the next sign in when using dynamic disks. To prevent these situations, 

you should plan for at least 30% free space. Monitor the event logs or log files for warning 

events at less than 2 GB and less than 500-MB free space. 

Do I need to use the ODFC container when using 
Microsoft 365 applications? 

No, The ODFC container is primarily used in VDI solutions where another roaming profile 

product is used. Always use a single profile container unless your business or workload 

requirements need the separation. Check out the Types of Containers article for more 

information. 

How do I configure OneDrive with FSLogix? 

FSLogix handles all the complexity (filesystem redirection) behind the scenes. When a user 

signs in to OneDrive and must choose a location, they should select the default location 

( C:\Users\%username%\). FSLogix uses this location and all the data is saved to the user's 

container. Review the following OneDrive documentation: 

      Use the sync app on virtual desktops 

      Silently configure user accounts 

      Redirect and move Windows known folders to OneDrive 

      Use OneDrive policies to control sync settings 

Do OneDrive policies monitor the FSLogix VHD size 
or the local disk size? 

----------------------- Page 292-----------------------

When using FSLogix for profiles or profile and ODFC containers are in use, the OneDrive disk 

space policies check the FSLogix VHD rather than the operating system disk. 

Figure 1: OneDrive disk space warning policy object 

----------------------- Page 293-----------------------

Figure 2: ODFC VHD Properties 

----------------------- Page 294-----------------------

Figure 3: OneDrive Warning - Low Disk Space 

Can I migrate user profile data from other roaming 
profile solutions to an FSLogix container? 

FSLogix doesn't provide a direct migration path from other roaming profile solutions. 

Implementing OneDrive with known folder move or similar cloud or network storage solutions 

provides users with a location to save their data outside of their profile. For smaller use cases, 

our frx command-line utility can help copy local profiles into a new VHD(x). 

Can I convert from a single profile container to a 
profile and ODFC container configuration? 

----------------------- Page 295-----------------------

Yes. When the ODFC container is created, FSLogix copies the data from the profile container 

though the original data isn't removed. The original data must be removed manually. 

Example ODFC log file entries: 

  Console 

  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirroring  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive to \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb- 
  0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CopyFolderToVolume: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  OneDrive\UserMeta Volume: \\?\Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Creating mount point:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff} -> \\? 
  \Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [18:09:59.554][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success creating mount point.  
  Mirroring files... 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory: Source:  
  C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive Destination:  
  C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Copying directory:  
  C:\Windows\system32\robocopy.exe  
  "C:\Users\%username%.FSL0\AppData\Local\Microsoft\OneDrive"  
  "C:\Windows\TEMP\FrxMount{bbbbcccc-1111-dddd-2222-eeee3333ffff}\OneDrive\UserMeta"  
  /MT /R:5 /W:1 /XJD /COPYALL /IT /B /DCOPY:DAT /MIR 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            CreateProcess successful 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Enabling cloud files pass- 
  through 
  [18:09:59.569][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Waiting for process to end 
  [18:10:00.460][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Robocopy exit code: 1  
  (Success) 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Success mirroring files 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Volume mount point removed 
  [18:10:00.616][tid:00000f94.000040cc][INFO]            Mirror complete 

Microsoft Entra ID 

Can a user change their password while connected 
to a VDI session with an FSLogix container attached 
for their profile? 

Users may change their passwords under the following scenarios: 

      The virtual machine is either joined to Active Directory or Entra hybrid joined AND it has 

      line of sight to a domain controller. 

      The user is an Entra hybrid identity (synced from an Active Directory). 

----------------------- Page 296-----------------------

      The user changes their password during sign in to Windows (Administrator checked the 

      box to change password at next logon). 

      The user changes their password within their VDI session using Ctrl+Alt+Del or 

      Ctrl+Alt+End. 

Users signed into Entra joined virtual machines or using Entra only identities are not supported 

for password changes with an active VDI session using an FSLogix container. Users must be 

fully signed out of any sessions with an FSLogix container, then they can change their 

password. Once changed they can sign into their VDI session. 

Can I use FSLogix containers with Microsoft Entra ID 
and cloud-only identities? 

Yes...BUT, it requires understanding of the risks. There are two (2) ways we've identified how to 

configure FSLogix for Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities. Check out the  FSLogix 

profile containers for Microsoft Entra ID cloud only identities  blog article. 

Can I use FSLogix application rule sets with 
 Microsoft Entra ID and cloud-only identities? 

 No. Application rule sets only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine has line of sight to a Domain Controller. 

Can I use object specific settings with Microsoft 
 Entra ID cloud-only identities or Microsoft Entra 
joined vir tual machines and hybrid identities? 

 No. Object specific settings only work with traditional Active Directory SID(s). Hybrid (sync'd) 

identities work as long as the virtual machine is hybrid Entra joined. 

Can I use the same Profile container when switching 
from hybrid Entra joined to Entra joined Session 
 Hosts or virtual machines using hybrid identities? 

 No. The user's SID changes to their 'cloud-based' SID when signing into a computer that is 

 Entra joined which prevents the profile from loading correctly. 

 Redirects or redirections.xml 

----------------------- Page 297-----------------------

What are the recommended values for the 
redirections.xml file? 

FSLogix doesn't provide recommended values for the redirections.xml file. The redirections.xml 

file is a powerful tool to help you manage the user's profile AND may cause problems if not 

used correctly. We rely on application owners to document what data can or can't be excluded 

from user's profile container. 

For example: 

      Classic Teams: Classic Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure 

      New Teams: Upgrade to new Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) 

    Tip 

   Don't exclude user profile data for applications unless the application owner has 

   documented the data can be excluded. 

I don't see the redirections.xml events in the log file. 

If you don't see any entries in the log file as described in the tutorial, it's most common to be 

one of three things: 

      The  RedirXMLSourceFolder contains the full filename path. 

      The user doesn't have read access to the file share location. 

      The path to the file share can't be found (network, DNS or bad name). 

The include statement isn't working as expected. 

The include statement is used to keep sub directories of excluded folders in the user's profile. 

The include statement only works if the data or folder exists in the profile  BEFORE creating the 

include statement. It's common for applications to create these folders at their initial launch. 

This can cause problems if the user gets a new profile and the data doesn't exist until the 

application is launched. 

    Tip 

   Don't include this type of data in your XML file. 

----------------------- Page 298-----------------------

What is the limit of exclude and include statements 
for the redirections.xml file? 

There isn't a technical limitation. Less is more. Adding redirections for small folders doesn't 

benefit the user's experience. Having numerous exclude or include statements causes a 

performance issue because each file system request must be checked against the list of 

redirections. These file system operations add up and decrease the virtual machine's overall 

performance. 

After I implemented redirections.xml, the user's 
container stayed the same size or grew larger. 

Implementing the redirections.xml file to exclude content for existing FSLogix profiles doesn't 

remove or delete the exclusion from the user's profile. You need to delete the profile container 

or create a script to run after sign in or part of the sign in process to delete the content from 

the container. 

VHD disk compaction 

Why is VHD disk compaction not running or not 
recovering the space I expect? 

   1. Check the profile or ODFC log files for errors or warnings. 

   2. Review the concept article for VHD disk compaction. 

How do I adjust the disk compaction threshold? 

The threshold isn't configurable. 

Can the message during sign out be customized? 

No, the message during sign out is a built-in Windows process that can't be changed. 

What happens if a user disconnects during the sign 
out and tries to reconnect? 

The disconnected session continues the sign out process, including compaction. If the 

compaction process isn't complete by the time the user tries to reconnect, the disk is in use. 

----------------------- Page 299-----------------------

The user experience depends on your other configuration settings. Under default conditions, 

the user is signed in with a temporary profile. 

How does disk compaction work with Cloud Cache? 

During the sign out phase, all content in the disk is brought down from one of the providers to 

the local VHD(x) disk. Then the disk is evaluated for compaction. If or when compaction 

completes, the local VHD(x) is uploaded to the Cloud Cache provider(s). This process causes 

the sign out process to take longer in this type of configuration, which could lead to a poor 

user experience. 

Cloud Cache 

Do I need to use Cloud Cache for high availability? 

No. It can be an acceptable solution to use standard containers (VHDLocations) with a highly 

available storage provider. Azure Files provides high availability through zone-redundant 

storage (ZRS) and is a recommended storage provider. 

Why does it take so long for users to sign out? 

Cloud Cache performs lazy asynchronous updates to the remote storage providers during a 

user's session. These operations aren't real-time and are subject to the latency and throughput 

of the network and storage providers. At sign out, Cloud Cache attempts to merge all the data 

from the local cache to ALL storage providers listed. Storage providers which are under 

performing or have high latency will take longer to merge. FSLogix holds the user's sign out 

until the operation is complete. 

Recommendations 

      Review your network topology and latency to all configured storage providers 

      Upgrade your storage provider to a higher performing tier 

      Disable VHDCompactDisk 

      Don't use  ProfileType = 3 or  VHDAccessMode = 1, 2, or 3 

----------------------- Page 300-----------------------

Troubleshooting issues with system 
resources 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

Virtual machine size (user density) 

In multi-session environment where multiple users can connect to the same virtual machine, 

sizing and optimal user density are important factors for a good user experience. 

Recommendations 

      Reduce the number of concurrent users per virtual machine 

      Increase the size of the virtual machine 

         vCPU only 

        Memory only 

         vCPU and Memory 

      If using a Cloud Cache configuration, start with a 2:1 user to vCPU ratio. 

Virtual machines shows high CPU usages for 

 svchost.exe 

In some situations, high CPU usage for  svchost.exe can be caused by Distributed Component 

Object Model (DCOM) permissions. DCOM in Windows allows remote communication between 

applications. Resetting the DCOM permission stack allows the components to reset their 

correct permissions and may resolve the application instability and high CPU usage. 

----------------------- Page 301-----------------------

Recommendation 

  ２ Warning 

   Serious problems might occur if you modify the registry incorrectly by using Registry 

   Editor or by using another method. These problems might require that you reinstall the 

   operating system. Microsoft cannot guarantee that these problems can be solved. Modify 

   the registry at your own risk. 

Reset DCOM permissions by removing the following entries from the registry: 

      HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Ole:"DefaultAccessPermission" 

      HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Ole:"DefaultLaunchPermission" 

      HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Ole:"MachineAccessRestriction" 

      HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Ole:"MachineLaunchRestriction" 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 302-----------------------

Troubleshooting VHD Disk Compaction 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

  default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

  access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

  Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage     . 

  ） Important 

  The VHD Disk Compaction feature is available in FSLogix 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) or later. 

Use this article to troubleshoot issues you're having with the VHD Disk Compaction feature. 

Unexpected VHD disk compaction results 

     Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) and later (ongoing) 

Using  ProfileType = 3 or  VHDAccessMode = 1,2, or 3, creates differencing disks. This affects 

the VHD disk compaction process because the size of the differencing disk is used to evaluate 

the thresholds. Most often these differencing disks are small and never meet the thresholds. 

Resolution 

We plan to address this issue in a future release. 

ERROR:00000422 The defragsvc is disabled OR 
ERROR:00000102 Failed to query minimum 
supported size 

----------------------- Page 303-----------------------

The VHD Disk Compaction feature relies on the Optimize Drives (defragsvc) and Microsoft 

Storage Spaces SMP (smphost) services. If the service StartupType is set to  Disabled, VHD Disk 

Compaction can't run. The service StartupType must be set to  Manual or Automatic, regardless 

if the service state is Running or Stopped. 

Resolution: Configure service start-up behavior 

Use one of these methods for configuring the service startup behavior. 

Services tool 

   1. Select Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then select Services. 

   2. Right-click Optimize Drives service, and then select  Properties. 

   3. From the General tab, select the drop-down next to Startup Type, and then select 

      Manual or Automatic. 

   4. Right-click Microsoft Storage Spaces SMP service, and then select  Properties. 

   5. From the General tab, select the drop-down next to Startup Type, and then select 

      Manual or Automatic. 

   6. Select OK, and then close the Services tool. 

PowerShell 

   1. Open PowerShell as an Administrator. 

   2. Run the following command: 

        PowerShell 

        Set-Service defragsvc -StartupType Manual 
        Set-Service smphost -StartupType Manual 

Data collection 

The VHD Disk Compaction feature provides information through log files and event logs. 

Log files 

The path for the log files is  C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs\Profile\Profile-yyyyMMdd.log . 

During the sign out phase, the log file has entries toward the end of the sign out process for 

the disk compaction events. 

----------------------- Page 304-----------------------

    Tip 

   When reviewing FSLogix logs, press  Ctrl+F to search the file, and then type  [ERROR:. This 

   will find any errors including those related to VHD Disk Compaction. 

Sample log file entries: 

      WasCompacted: true 

       [14:46:46.854][tid:00001084.0000105c][INFO] Disk size results: WasCompacted: true, 

      MaxSupportedSize: 31456214528, MinSupportedSize: 1643998720, SizeOnDisk (Before: 

      3704442880 - After: 1855410176), Space Saved: 1849032704, Compaction took: 24687 

      WasCompacted: false 

       [18:35:31.300][tid:00000ec4.00000d3c][INFO] Disk size results: WasCompacted: false, 

      MaxSupportedSize: 15727574528, MinSupportedSize: 2194816512, SizeOnDisk (Before: 

      1816133632 - After: 1816133632), Space Saved: 0, Compaction took: 1547 

       [18:35:31.300][tid:00000ec4.00000d3c][INFO] Disk was not compacted, Reason: Not 

      enough recoverable space for compaction. 

Event Logs 

The table lists the events that can be logged for VHD Disk Compaction: 

Log name: Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Log            Event    Message 
                   ID 

  Operational      57     Disk was compacted:  <true-or-false>. Sign out time increased by  xx 

                          milliseconds. Disk size reduced by  xx MB. (VHDPath:  <path-to-vhd>) 

  Operational      58     Volume optimization failed, Path:  <path>, Message:  <message>, ExtendedMessage 

                           <extended-message> 

 Admin             60     The  VHDCompactDisk configuration setting is dependent on the  defragsvc service. 

                          The service start type is set to disabled. Make sure the service start type is set to 
                          Manual or Automatic. 

  Operational      61     This vhd(x) can't be compacted because it has a fixed size. VHD(x) Path:  <path-to- 

                          vhd> 

----------------------- Page 305-----------------------

 Log            Event    Message 
                  ID 

 Admin            62     Unable to compact the disk, Message:  <message>, Path:  <path>, 

                         ExtendedMessage:  <extended-message> 

 Admin            63     Failed during disk compaction, ErrorCode:  <error code>, VHD(x) Path:  <path> 

Next steps 

  Understand VHD Disk Compaction usage and performance 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 306-----------------------

FSLogix product support 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

This page covers FSLogix support eligibility, support boundaries, and the three (3) methods for 

engaging with Microsoft Support. 

Prerequisites 

 ＂   Review:  FSLogix feature deprecation 

Support eligibility 

FSLogix is part of the Microsoft  modern lifecycle policy. FSLogix is continuously updated and 

requires customers to remain up to date on the latest release to be under support. Customers 

who have issues with previous versions of FSLogix are  required to upgrade. FSLogix doesn't 

provide updates or changes to previous versions (back porting). Issues discovered through 

support cases or other means will be addressed in future feature or hotfix releases. 

Support for FSLogix and its products is limited to customers who meet the product eligibility 

requirements. Additionally, FSLogix is only supported on the following versions of Windows 

and is also subject to the products extended end date of supportability. 

Operating system bit architecture 

  ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 307-----------------------

  32-bit architecture has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no longer supported. 

   Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

      64-bit 

Client operating systems 

     Windows 10 

     Windows 11 

  ） Important 

   Includes Multi-session SKU(s) found in the Azure Marketplace 

Server operating systems 

  ７ Note 

  Support for Windows Server 2012 R2 has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no 

   longer supported. Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

     Windows Server 2016 

     Windows Server 2019 

     Windows Server 2022 

     Windows Server 2025 

Support boundaries 

      If the source of an issue can't be identified in the logs captured by the FSLogix Support 

     Tool, from a memory dump, or the trace ETL files, then Microsoft support requires 

      instructions to reproduce the issue from a clean installation of Windows. 

      In cases where a virtual machine crashes, deadlocks (with or without a BSOD), or the 

      FSLogix App service crashes, Microsoft support troubleshoots from a memory dump even 

      if the issue can't be reproduced. 

      Due to the quantity of environmental variables and the various configurations, Microsoft 

     support asks that the issue is reproduced from a clean installation of Windows. This 

----------------------- Page 308-----------------------

      includes all programs and settings configured in Windows, FSLogix, and third-party 

      applications. 

      FSLogix tracks emerging issues with third-party products that are suspected to cause 

      compatibility issues and until the issues can be reproduced, these issues won't be 

      resolved from product updates. 

      FSLogix technical support assists with break fix issues and will provide deployment and 

      configuration advice as 'best effort'. 

        ） Important 

        Microsoft Consulting Services or Microsoft Partner assistance should be considered 

        under these conditions: 

            Project management 

            Large-scale deployments 

            Profile migrations 

           Complex configurations 

Open a support request 

These next sections outline the three (3) primary methods in creating a support request. 

Azure portal 

Customers who use FSLogix in the context of Azure (for example, Azure Virtual Desktop, 

Infrastructure as a Service, etc.) can create a support request via the portal under the Help + 

Support section. 

  Create Support Request 

When prompted, ensure you've selected the correct items from the drop-down lists: 

      Issue Type: Technical 

      Service: Azure Virtual Desktop 

      Problem Type: FSLogix 

Services Hub 

----------------------- Page 309-----------------------

Customers who use FSLogix in an on-premises scenario can open their support request using 

Services Hub. Depending on your support agreement with Microsoft (for example, Premier or 

Unified Support), there are two (2) options: 

      Unified Support 

         Services Hub for Unified Support 

      Microsoft support (Pay-per-incident) 

         Services Hub for Business 

                                                                         

Phone support 

      Global Customer Service phone numbers 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 310-----------------------

FSLogix feature deprecation 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

The lifecycle of functionality, features, and services are governed by shifting policies, support 

timelines, informed data analysis, and collaborative decisions by leadership and engineering 

teams. Lifecycle information helps customers chart out their long-term deployment strategies, 

transition from outdated to new technology, and help improve business outcomes. Use the 

following tables to understand the upcoming and past changes to certain FSLogix features, 

services, and functionality. 

Deprecation vs retirement 

      Deprecation: Describes the transitional phase during which a software component is 

      marked as discouraged for future use but is still functional. 

      Retirement: Describes the permanent removal of a software component from active use 

      and support. 

Upcoming deprecations and retirements 

Use the following table to learn about upcoming deprecations and retirements, including dates 

and recommendations. 

   ７ Note 

   Dates and times are United States Pacific Standard Time, and are subject to change. 

----------------------- Page 311-----------------------

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

 Functionality, feature, or service                     Change         Deprecation           Retirement 
                                                                       Date                  Date 

 Support for 32-bit operating systems                   Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 Support for Windows Server 2012 R2                     Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 Java Rule Editor and Java Rules                        Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 App Container Rules                                    Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 

                                                                                              2025 

 Application Rule Set license reporting                 Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 Internet Explorer browser plug-in                      Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 Profiles Configuration Tool                            Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 FRXTray utility                                        Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
                                                                                              2025 

 Cloud Cache CcdMaxCacheSizeInMBs (limited              Deprecation    August 22, 2023       February 11, 
 cache)                                                                                       2025 

Next steps 

  FSLogix product support 

  FSLogix release notes 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 312-----------------------

Known Issues 

  ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage        . 

FSLogix can be used in various solutions and environments. Through customer feedback, 

ongoing support cases, or direct testing, there are identified issues which might affect your 

environments. This article outlines these items as they're discovered. Some known issues have 

workarounds, while others require a code change in the product. 

  ７ Note 

   Not all known issues will be addressed through product changes as some cases are 

   dependent on other products or organizations. 

ODFC VHD(x) containers won't be created or 
mounted when CleanupInvalidSessions is enabled 

      Updated: January 26, 2026 

      Affected version(s): 26.01 (3.26.102.18413) 

      State: Fixed 

When Profiles and ODFC are enabled with CleanupInvalidSessions, FSLogix will fail to create or 

mount the ODFC VHD(x) container. 

Mitigation 

Disable CleanupInvalidSessions. 

----------------------- Page 313-----------------------

 Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

 Devices that are only Entra jo ined will see an 
 increase in Event Log errors (EventID 26) 

      Updated: July 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): All versions 

      State: In progress 

FSLogix application rule sets rely on the ability to query a Domain Controller using LDAP. When 

a device is only Microsoft Entra joined (and not domain joined or Microsoft Entra hybrid 

joined), this check fails, resulting in two Event ID 26 errors. These errors are expected even 

when you've not implemented any rule sets; they can be safely ignored. 

  text 

  Log Name:      Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational 
  Source:        Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps 
  Date:          6/10/2025 10:37:03 PM 
  Event ID:      26 
  Task Category: None 
  Level:         Error 
  Keywords: 
  User:          SYSTEM 
  Computer:      WIN-HOSJ27GHJ33 
  Description: 
  Failed to get computer's group SIDs 

  Log Name:      Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational 
  Source:        Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps 
  Date:          6/10/2025 10:37:02 PM 
  Event ID:      26 
  Task Category: None 
  Level:         Error 
  Keywords:       
  User:          SYSTEM 
  Computer:      WIN-HOSJ27GHJ33 
  Description: 
  Querying computer's fully qualified distinguished name failed. (Configuration  
  information could not be read from the domain controller, either because the  
  machine is unavailable, or access has been denied.) 

 Resolution 

----------------------- Page 314-----------------------

We plan to address this in a future release. 

When signing into the same virtual machine 
between sessions, 'Resultant Set of Policy ' (RSOP) 
or  GPResult /R fails to find any data 

      Updated: February 11, 2025 

     Affected version(s): 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) or later 

      State: In progress 

In 2210 hotfix 4, we reintroduced the asynchronous Group Policy processing feature. We've 

identified some cases when a user is signing into the same virtual machine between their 

sessions, the Resultant Set of Policy (RSOP) or Group Policy Results commands fail to find any 

data to determine the result of the policy processing. The user-based policies are still 

processed and applied, but aren't able to be rendered by these tools. However, signing into a 

different virtual machine between sessions will properly find the policy processing data. 

Resolution 

We plan to address this in a future release. 

OneDrive is intermittently stuck at signing in on 
Windows Server 2019 

      Updated: February 11, 2025 

     Affected version(s): 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) or later 

      State: In progress 

When signing into Windows Server 2019, the OneDrive sync client will intermittently get stuck 

at signing in and eventually will fail to complete the sign in process. 

Resolution 

We plan to address this in a future release. 

Nonroamable identity registry locations are not 
removed during sign out 

----------------------- Page 315-----------------------

      Updated: January 13, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.09 (3.25.822.19044) and previous versions 

      State: Fixed 

The recommended exclusions for identity data which includes several registry locations were 

not properly removed during the user sign out. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

Incorrect file name displayed when emptying the 
Recycle Bin with only a single item in it 

      Updated: December 11, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223), 25.04 (3.25.401.15305) 

      State: Fixed 

When the Recycle Bin is redirected to the FSLogix container and the user attempts to empty it 

with only a single item, the item name isn't displayed correctly and the Recycle Bin can't be 

emptied. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

ODFC settings applied to systems after ProfileLoad 
during sign in aren't applied to the user 

      Updated: July 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223), 25.04 (3.25.401.15305) 

      State: Fixed 

In order to address issues affecting New Teams during sign out, ODFC settings were moved out 

of StartShell and EndShell. When using a third-party profile solution and the ODFC settings are 

applied as part of the sign in flow, the ODFC settings are read and applied prior to StartShell 

and won't be applied to the signed in user. 

Resolution 

----------------------- Page 316-----------------------

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

FSLogix containers don't detach and prevent users 
from signing into a new session 

      Updated: April 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

      State: Fixed 

Users were unable to sign into a new session because FSLogix containers didn't detach 

properly. Unhandled exceptions were causing a break in code flow that would normally 

continue and correctly detach a FSLogix container. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

FSLogix Rules don't apply to users as expected 

      Updated: April 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

      State: Fixed 

Users weren't correctly assigned to rules resulting in rules not working as expected. Prior to 

25.02, we saw issues with new Teams and ODFC where some settings aren't saved when the 

user signs out. New in 25.02 were changes to improve how these settings are captured prior to 

user sign out. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

FRXShell rule fails clean up and prevents all user 
sign ins 

      Updated: April 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

      State: Fixed 

----------------------- Page 317-----------------------

Under some situations, the FRXShell rule would apply to all users preventing sign in. Due to the 

FSLogix Rules do not apply to users as expected issue, we fail to assign the FRXShell rule. 

Without the assignment, our cleanup task wouldn't remove the rule and resulted in the 

FRXShell rule applying to all users. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

After signing in, user receives an error message 
that the Recycle Bin is corrupted 

      Updated: April 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

      State: Fixed 

Users would intermittently receive a notification after signing in that the "Recycle Bin is 

corrupted". We discovered an issue where users were unable to access the Recycle Bin within 

their profile VHD. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

Searchindexer.exe (frx_usermode_x64.dll) crashing 
in Windows Server 2016 

      Updated: April 8, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 25.02 (3.25.202.4223) 

      State: Fixed 

We identified an issue where we implement functionality for Windows Search and Outlook 

Cached Mode. An updated call to these components would cause the Searchindexer.exe to 

crash. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

----------------------- Page 318-----------------------

LocalCache and TempState folders aren't properly 
cleaned up during sign out 

   ７ Note 

   Doesn't affect LocalCache for Microsoft Teams. 

      Updated: February 11, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) 

      State: Fixed 

As stated in the  FAQ, FSLogix deletes the contents of specific UWP folders inside the user's 

profile container. We discovered that the  LocalCache and  TempState folders aren't deleting and 

might have an adverse effect when roamed between virtual machines. Currently Microsoft 

Teams is affected by this issue due to roaming this data from the following packages: 

      %LocalAppData%\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.StartMenuExperienceHost_cw5n1h2txyewy\Temp 

      State 

      %LocalAppData%\Local\Packages\MicrosoftWindows.Client.CBS_cw5n1h2txyewy\TempState 

      (Windows 11) 

      %LocalAppData%\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.Search_cw5n1h2txyewy\TempState 

      (Windows 10) 

Other applications or packages may also be affected and should be considered when 

troubleshooting issues. 

Workaround 

Create or update the redirections.xml to exclude the  TempState folder. 

  XML 

  <Exclude Copy="0">AppData\Local\Packages\**<insert-package-name- 
  here>**\TempState</Exclude> 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

----------------------- Page 319-----------------------

New Microsoft Teams for virtual desktops on 
Windows Server 2019 

      Updated: May 14, 2024 

      Affected version(s): 2210 hotfix 3 (2.9.8784.63912) and older 

      State: Fixed 

Users connecting to virtual desktops running on Windows Server 2019 are unable to launch or 

use new Microsoft Teams. Reviewing the application event log displays one or more errors. 

   1.  Failure to instantiate storage folder 

      C:\Users\%username%\AppData\Local\Packages\MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalCache for 

      package MSTeams_8wekyb3d8bbwe with Error Code: -2147024809 

   2. New Teams application crash: 

        Console 

        Faulting application name: ms-teams.exe, version: %msteams_version%, time  
        stamp: 0x65719f33 
        Faulting module name: ucrtbase.dll, version: %dll_version%, time stamp:  
        0x48ac8393 
        Exception code: 0xc0000409 
        Fault offset: 0x000000000006e77e 
        Faulting process id: 0x1fc4 
        Faulting application start time: 0x01da4d71abbfd06e 
        Faulting application path: C:\Program  
        Files\WindowsApps\MSTeams_%msteams_version%_x64__8wekyb3d8bbwe\ms-teams.exe 
        Faulting module path: C:\Windows\System32\ucrtbase.dll 
        Report Id: d0463b2e-8cc4-4bc6-96d9-f20c719fccd2 
        Faulting package full name: MSTeams_%msteams_version%_x64__8wekyb3d8bbwe 
        Faulting package-relative application ID: MSTeams 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

Enabled by default policies in the ADMX template 
can't be disabled using Group Policy 

      Updated: February 11, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 2210 hotfix 2 (2.9.8612.60056) through 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) 

      State: Fixed 

----------------------- Page 320-----------------------

FSLogix has several settings which are  Enabled by default. When the ADMX templates were 

updated in the last feature release, a checkbox was removed from all of these settings to 

leverage the default  Enabled and  Disabled boolean from the policy. When  Disabled is 

selected from the Group Policy template, the setting is removed instead of setting the registry 

value to  0 (Disabled). 

List of impacted settings: 

      Apps 

         RoamRecycleBin 

         VHDCompactDisk 

      Profiles 

         CleanOutNotifications 

         InstallAppxPackages 

         IsDynamic 

         OutlookCachedMode 

      ODFC 

         IncludeOfficeActivation 

         IncludeOneDrive 

         IncludeOutlook 

         IncludeOutlookPersonalization 

         IncludeSharepoint 

         IncludeSkype 

         IsDynamic 

         OutlookCachedMode 

Workaround 

Use a manual configuration option. 

Resolution 

Use the latest FSLogix ADMX / ADML files. 

Unexpected VHD disk compaction results 

      Updated: February 11, 2025 

      Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) through 2210 hotfix 4 (2.9.8884.27471) 

      State: Fixed 

----------------------- Page 321-----------------------

Using  ProfileType = 3 or  VHDAccessMode = 1,2, or 3, differencing disks are used. This affects 

the VHD disk compaction process because the size of the differencing disk is used to evaluate 

the thresholds. Most often these differencing disks are small and never meet the thresholds. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

Microsoft Entra ID Authentication for applications 

      Updated: May 14, 2023 

      Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) 

      State: Fixed 

Users might be required to authenticate to their applications (for example, Microsoft 365 apps, 

Teams (work or school), OneDrive, etc.) at every sign-in. The repeated authentication prompts 

are due to the virtual machines Microsoft Entra join device state. We recommend virtual 

machines are Microsoft Entra joined or Hybrid Microsoft Entra joined for the best user 

experience. 

Virtual machines, which are Microsoft Entra joined or Hybrid Microsoft Entra joined create the 

user's primary refresh token (PRT) at sign-in. Primary refresh tokens created at sign-in are used 

to authenticate to Microsoft Entra ID based applications. Standard Domain Joined (DJ) virtual 

machines don't create a PRT at sign-in, instead rely on the Microsoft Entra ID plugin. 

Microsoft Entra ID broker directories and apps 

Starting in FSLogix 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) and later versions, all content stored in following 

locations is no longer roamed as part of the user profile. 

      %USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.AAD.BrokerPlugin_cw5n1h2txyewy 

      %USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Packages\Microsoft.Windows.CloudExperienceHost_cw5n1h2tx 

      yewy 

      %USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\Microsoft\TokenBroker 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. Configure  RoamIdentity by setting the registry value to 1 or 

enabling via Group Policy. 

----------------------- Page 322-----------------------

Black screen at sign-in or sihost.exe application 
hanging 

      Updated: March 2, 2023 

      Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) 

      State: Fixed 

With the RoamRecycleBin setting enabled (enabled by default ) and during the sign-in process, 

some users might experience a black screen instead of displaying the desktop. The black 

screen occurs when we configure the initial virtualization of the recycle bin. During the sign-in 

process, the recycle bin isn't empty on the virtual machine and our process attempts to empty 

it for all users. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

Service Crash: User receives default or temporary 
profile (profile fails to load) 

      Updated: March 2, 2023 

      Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) 

      Status: Fixed 

With the InstallAppxPackages setting enabled (enabled by default ) and during the sign-in 

process, some users might receive a default or temporary profile as a result of the user's profile 

container failing to attach. The container failure occurs as a result of the frxsvc.exe crashing 

during sign-in. 

   ７ Note 

   Doesn't cover all scenarios where a user's profile fails to load. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

----------------------- Page 323-----------------------

ODFC disk compaction fails with RoamSearch 
enabled 

      Updated: March 2, 2023 

      Affected version(s): 2210 (2.9.8361.52326) 

      Status: Fixed 

                                                                1 
In some cases where RoamSearch and VHDCompactDisk  are enabled, disk compaction fails 

with the following error: 

 "[ERROR:00000000] Exception thrown during getSupportedSize, exception: 

D:\a\_work\1\s\packages\Microsoft.Windows.Wil.Internal.0.2.103\inc\wil\opensource\wil\res 

ult_macros.h(6159)\frxsvc.exe!00007FF63B53EC53: (caller: 00007FF63B53FB0D) Exception(2) 

tid(39c) 800401F0 CoInitialize has not been called." 

The result is the frxsvc.exe service crashes and the operation fails to succeed. 

1 VHDCompactDisk is enabled by default. 

Resolution 

Install the latest FSLogix version. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 324-----------------------

Troubleshooting with Logging and 
Diagnostics 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage         . 

The various FSLogix components create comprehensive logs. These logs are found in the 

following three (3) log types: 

      Client event logs 

      Text-based Log files 

      Event Trace Logging (ETL) 

Reviewing or collecting logs can be a great first step in the support process before opening a 

support case. The FSLogix Support Tool was created to help customers collect all the necessary 

logs into a single zipped archive. 

Client event logs 

FSLogix utilizes the Windows Event Log system to provide other data during many of the 

operations and tasks. These event logs can be found in the Windows Event Viewer under 

Applications and Services Logs -> FSLogix. Most event logs data is written in either the 

Admin or Operational logs under Apps. Event log data specific to Cloud Cache is written to 

either the Admin or Operational logs under CloudCache. 

----------------------- Page 325-----------------------

Figure 7: FSLogix Event Logs 

Text-based log files 

Text-based log files are the first place to look when troubleshooting FSLogix and requires the 

logging settings have been configured. 

Log file location:  C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs 

The most common log file used when troubleshooting an issue is the  Profile_%date%.log 

found in  C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs\Profile . 

How to review profile logs 

   ７ Note 

   Notepad++ is a great text editor as it provides the ability to highlight sets of keywords or 

   phrases. 

    1. Open the latest log file from  C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs\Profile\Profile_%date%.log . 

    2. Take note of the following sections: Computer Name, FSLogix version(s), and service 

      status. 

----------------------- Page 326-----------------------

   Figure 1: Profile log file 

3. Press  Ctrl+F to open the Find dialog and search for the sign in event for a specific user 

   (for example, jdoe). 

           Find what:  LoadProfile: %samaccountname% 

   Figure 2: Profile log search dialog 

4. Ensure the sign in event is in line with the time of the reported issue or problem. 

5. Next, note the process id for this user as this ID is used during the entire sequence of the 

   event (sign in or sign out). 

----------------------- Page 327-----------------------

6. Use the style feature to highlight the following sections within the log file: 

          Begin Session: Logon 

          Begin Session: Logoff 

          Milliseconds 

          loadProfile time: 

          unloadProfile time: 

   Figure 3: Profile log stylize terms 

7. With these keywords stylized, it's easier to locate the sign in and sign out events. 

   Figure 4: Example 1 

----------------------- Page 328-----------------------

      Figure 5: Example 2 

   8. Optionally, after you've stylized all the keywords, you can focus on a specific process for a 

      user's event by selecting the process id. Notepad++ will highlight all occurrences of this 

      process ID so you can follow its sequence as there may be other processes running for 

      other users at the same time. 

      Figure 6: Profile log process ID 

  ） Important 

   Each action in the log file will have a prefix for the type of event.  [INFO] for informational 

   events,  [WARN:xxxxxx] indicates Warnings, and  [ERROR:xxxxxx] for Errors. Both Warnings 

   and Error will have a corresponding error code. 

Event Trace Logging (ETL) 

----------------------- Page 329-----------------------

FSLogix implements trace logging, which creates Event Trace Logs ( ETL) files. There are two (2) 

 ETL files, which are created and saved. The  ETL files are saved to 

 C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Logs\, and are named  trace.etl.001 and  trace.etl.002 . The files are 

rotated using round-robin, with the oldest file being replaced with a new file after two files 

have been created. The  ETL files are capped at 100-MB maximum file size. 

The FSLogix  ETL files are managed by Windows autologger. Trace data is held in a buffer and 

written to the  ETL files as needed and overwritten at the designated threshold. Each time the 

computer is restarted, the  ETL files are rotated according to the configuration. 

   ７ Note 

   Event Trace Logging is intended for Microsoft Internal Use only. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 330-----------------------

FSLogix Codes and what they mean 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage           . 

The Profile and ODFC container set three values that represent the state of FSLogix for the user 

signing in: 

      Status 

         Normal 

         Error 

      Reason 

      Error (generated from Windows, not FSLogix) 

The three values are stored for each user's session in the local machines registry. Depending on 

the container, the user's session information could be stored in one (1) of two (2) places. 

      Profile container:  HKLM\Software\FSLogix\Profiles\Sessions\%sid% 

      ODFC container: 

         HKLM\Software\Policies\FSLogix\ODFC\Sessions\%sid% 

         HKCU\Software\FSLogix\ODFC\Sessions 

Status and Reason codes provide a holistic view of the FSLogix state for any specific user. The 

Status code can be one (1) of two (2) types, normal and error. Error codes are set when an 

FSLogix operation didn't succeed. These codes are generated from Windows. 

Status Codes (Normal and Error) 

Status codes correspond to an FSLogix operation that succeeded or failed. 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 331-----------------------

Code     Type      Description                                    Explanation 

  0     Normal    STATUS_SUCCESS                                  Success 

  1       Error    ERROR                                          Can't load user's profile 

  2       Error    ERROR_VIRT_DLL                                 Virtual disk API isn't available on this 
                                                                  platform 

  3       Error    ERROR_GET_USER                                 Can't retrieve user's security identifier 

  4       Error    ERROR_HANDLE_ODFC                              There was an error setting up the Office 
                                                                  365 Container 

  5       Error    ERROR_SECURITY                                 Can't retrieve security information 

  6       Error    ERROR_VHD_PATH                                 Can't retrieve virtual disk location 

  7       Error    ERROR_CREATE_DIR                               Can't create destination folders 

  8       Error    ERROR_IMPERSONATION                            Can't impersonate user 

  9       Error    ERROR_CREATE_VHD                               Can't create virtual disk 

  10      Error    ERROR_CLOSE_HANDLE                             Can't release virtual disk 

  11      Error    ERROR_OPEN_VHD                                 Can't open virtual disk 

  12      Error    ERROR_ATTACH_VHD                               Can't attach to virtual disk 

  13      Error    ERROR_GET_PHYSICAL_PATH                        Can't retrieve virtual disk's physical 
                                                                  information 

  14      Error    ERROR_OPEN_DEVICE                              Can't open virtual disk's volume 

  15      Error    ERROR_INIT_DISK                                Can't initialize virtual disk 

  16      Error    ERROR_GET_VOL_GUID                             Can't retrieve virtual disk identifier 

  17      Error    ERROR_FORMAT_VOL                               Error while formatting virtual disk 

  18      Error    ERROR_GET_PROFILE_DIR                          Can't retrieve profile directory 

  19      Error    ERROR_SET_MOUNT_POINT                          Can't set up directory mount point 

  20      Error    ERROR_REG_IMPORT                               Can't import registry information 

  21      Error    ERROR_CHK_GRP_MEMBERSHIP                       Can't retrieve user's group 

  22      Error    ERROR_HANDLE_PROFILE                           Error handling profile 

  23      Error    ERROR_PROFILE_SUBFOLDER_REDIRECTION            Can't set up folder redirections 

----------------------- Page 332-----------------------

  Code     Type     Description                                    Explanation 

   24      Error    ERROR_CREATE_EVENT                             Unable to create event 

   25      Error    ERROR_PER_SESSION_VHD                          Maximum sessions reached 

   26      Error    ERROR_DETACH_VHD                               Can't detach virtual disk at the provided 
                                                                   location 

   27      Error    ERROR_FIND_VHD                                 Can't find virtual disk at the provided 
                                                                   location 

   28      Error    ERROR_NO_SESSION_CONFIG                        No user session config found 

   100    Normal    STATUS_WAITING_FOR_PROFILE_DIR_SET             Waiting for the Windows Profile Service 
                                                                   to determine the user's profile folder 

  200     Normal    STATUS_IN_PROGRESS                             Setup in progress 

  300     Normal    STATUS_ALREADY_ATTACHED                        The profile is already attached 
                                                                   (differencing disks only) 

EXAMPLE: Status codes in Profile Logs 

  Console 

   [07:31:26.900][tid:00000d30.00004c04][INFO]             Status set to 28: No user  
  session config found 
   [07:38:15.311][tid:00000d30.0000218c][INFO]             Status set to 100: Waiting  
  for the Windows Profile Service to determine the user's profile folder 
   [07:42:47.045][tid:00000d30.00004168][INFO]             Status set to 200: Setup in  
  progress 
   [07:42:48.076][tid:00000d30.00004168][INFO]             Status set to 0: Success 

Reason Codes 

Reason codes are used to help clarify the normal Status codes as described and aren't used to 

with error Status codes. 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

  Code    Description                                   Explanation 

    0     REASON_PROFILE_ATTACHED                       The container is attached 

    1     REASON_NOT_IN_WHITE_LIST                      User isn't a member of the include group 

----------------------- Page 333-----------------------

  Code    Description                                Explanation 

    2     REASON_IN_BLACK_LIST                       User is a member of the exclude group 

    3     REASON_LOCAL_PROFILE_EXISTS                A local profile for this user exists on this system 

    4     REASON_SHORT_SID                           Not an appropriate user type 

    5     REASON_UNSET                               Reason initialized to empty state 

    6     REASON_COMPONENT_NOT_ENABLED               Component isn't enabled in product key (legacy) 

    7     REASON_WINDOWS_TEMP_PROFILE                Profile is a Windows temporary profile 

    8     REASON_NOT_WVD_SESSION                     Session isn't an Azure Virtual Desktop Session 

    9     REASON_FAILED_TO_LOAD_PROFILE              Profile load failed 

EXAMPLE: Reason codes in Profile Logs 

  Console 

  [07:26:39.015][tid:00000d30.000044b4][INFO]             Volume name: \\? 
  \Volume{aaaabbbb-0000-cccc-1111-dddd2222eeee}\ 
  [07:26:39.015][tid:00000d30.000044b4][INFO]             Reason set to 0: The  
  container is attached 
  [07:26:39.015][tid:00000d30.000044b4][INFO]             queryFreeDiskSpace  
  returning after 0 milliseconds 

Error Codes 

When an FSLogix operation fails, a Warning or Error code is set. The Warning and Error Codes 

come from Windows, where FSLogix made an API call and the operation wasn't successful. 

These codes correspond to System Error Codes. 

EXAMPLE: Warning codes in profile logs 

  Console 

  [07:31:01.428][tid:00000d30.00004c04][WARN: 00000005]  Error removing directory:  
  \\fslfileserver\profiles\jdoe-S-1-2-34-000000000-000000000-0000000000-00000000-test  
  (Access is denied.) 
  [11:35:33.734][tid:00000d30.00004f38][WARN: 00000002]  Failed to query size of  
  VHD(x): \\fslfileserver\profiles\jdoe-S-1-2-34-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 
  00000000\Profile_jdoe.vhdx (The system cannot find the file specified.) 

----------------------- Page 334-----------------------

EXAMPLE: Error codes in profile logs 

  Console 

  [07:31:01.429][tid:00000d30.00004c04][ERROR:000000b7]  No Create access:  
  \\fslfileserver\profiles\jdoe-S-1-2-34-000000000-000000000-0000000000-00000000-test  
  (Cannot create a file when that file already exists.) 
  [07:31:01.432][tid:00000d30.00004c04][ERROR:000000b7]  LoadProfile failed. Version:  
  2.9.8308.44092 User: jdoe. SID: S-1-2-34-000000000-000000000-0000000000-00000000.  
  SessionId: 11. FrxStatus: 31 (Cannot create a file when that file already exists.) 
  [11:35:33.734][tid:00000d30.00004f38][ERROR:00000005]   
  VirtualDiskAPI::CreateFormattedDisk failed to create vhd(x):  
  \\fslfileserver\profiles\jdoe-S-1-2-34-000000000-000000000-0000000000- 
  00000000\Profile_jdoe.vhdx (Access is denied.) 
  [11:35:59.241][tid:00000d30.00004f38][ERROR:80070003]  Failed to save installed  
  AppxPackages (The system cannot find the path specified.) 

System Error Code troubleshooting 

System Error Codes can be decoded in various ways. The following links describe the most 

common methods for investigating these codes and their meaning. 

      System Error Code Learn Documentation 

      Windows Error Code Lookup tool 

      NET HELPMSG 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 335-----------------------

FSLogix Support Tool 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage             . 

   ７ Note 

   Current version: 2.6 (October 28th, 2020) 

Collecting the various logs and data created by FSLogix can be difficult. The FSLogix Support 

Tool was created to simplify the process and ensure all the necessary logs were collected in a 

single operation. The FSLogix Support Tool collects the following data: 

      Default items: 

         Text-based Log Files 

         Event Logs 

         Registry settings 

            Cloud Cache Driver (Frxccd) 

            Cloud Cache Service (Frxccds) 

            FSLogix Configuration and Session data (frxReg) 

            HKEY_CURRENT_USER Office 

            HKEY_CURRENT_USER Software Policies 

            HKEY_CURRENT_USER Windows Policies 

            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE Software Policies 

            HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE Windows Policies 

            OneDrive 

            ProfileList 

             WindowsSearch 

         Various system information 

----------------------- Page 336-----------------------

             Environment Variable (environment) 

             Filter Drivers (fltmcOutput) 

             File Share Permissions (folderPermissions) 

             FSLogix Information (frxinfo) 

             Group Policy Results (gpresult) 

             Drives and Volumes (mountvol) 

             Syst em Information (msinfo) 

            Apps and Pr ograms (ProgramList) 

             Log from Support Tool (SupportToolLog) 

             Syst em Information (syst eminfo) 

             Task Manager (tasklist) 

             Windows Update (updateHistory) 

          HTML reports (logAnalysis) 

             Error Analysis 

             Error Breakdown 

      Optional items: 

          Rule Set files 

         Crash or Memory Dump files 

   ７ Note 

   If the the FSLogix Apps RuleEditor or Java RuleEditor are installed, the Rule Sets will be 

   collected also. 

Download and extract FSLogix Support Tool 

Typically, the support tool is used on a specific virtual machine where the issue is occurring. 

Download       the FSLogix Support Tool on the problem virtual machine or copy it to the 

problem virtual machine. 

    1. Locate the .zip file for the FSLogix Support Tool. 

    2. Right-click the file and Select Extract All.... 

----------------------- Page 337-----------------------

      Figure 1: Support tool zip file 

Gather FSLogix content on a single computer 

   ７ Note 

   Before collecting logs, be sure that the problem virtual machine is configured with 

   logging enabled, and the logs exist. 

    1. Locate the folder where the FSLogix Support Tool was extracted to from the previous 

      section. 

   2. Open  Support Tool(1).exe to run. 

----------------------- Page 338-----------------------

   Figure 2: Support tool contents extracted 

3. Enter your company name in the box provided. 

4. Select Gather Rule Files and Gather Dump Files. 

5. Select Gather FSLogix Content. 

   Figure 3: FSLogix Support tool 

      ７ Note 

      Gathering FSLogix content will take some time. 

----------------------- Page 339-----------------------

   Figure 4: FSLogix Support tool progress bar 

6. When complete, the support tool compresses the contents to a file in 

    C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Support 

   Figure 5: FSLogix Support tool complete 

----------------------- Page 340-----------------------

      Figure 6: FSLogix Support tool completed zip file 

   7. The collected data can be used when opening a Microsoft Support Request. 

Gather FSLogix content on multiple computers 

   ７ Note 

   To collect the data from the remote computers, the account running the tool must have 

   local Administrator rights. 

    1. Create a file named  servers.txt in the same directory where the  Support Tool(1).exe is 

      located. 

   2. In the  servers.txt file, type the  NETBIOS or FQDN name for each computer to collect 

      (each on a separate line). 

----------------------- Page 341-----------------------

   Figure 7: Server text file 

3. Follow steps 2 - 7 from the single computer directions in the previous section. 

4. When complete, the data collected from the remote computers are in the  Remote Servers 

   folder in the compressed collection file. 

   Figure 3: FSLogix Support tool remote servers 

----------------------- Page 342-----------------------

   Tip 

  When the support tool is complete, review the SupportToolLog.txt file to verify the remote 

  server information was collected. 

Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 343-----------------------

FSLogix product support 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage       . 

This page covers FSLogix support eligibility, support boundaries, and the three (3) methods for 

engaging with Microsoft Support. 

Prerequisites 

 ＂   Review:  FSLogix feature deprecation 

Support eligibility 

FSLogix is part of the Microsoft  modern lifecycle policy. FSLogix is continuously updated and 

requires customers to remain up to date on the latest release to be under support. Customers 

who have issues with previous versions of FSLogix are  required to upgrade. FSLogix doesn't 

provide updates or changes to previous versions (back porting). Issues discovered through 

support cases or other means will be addressed in future feature or hotfix releases. 

Support for FSLogix and its products is limited to customers who meet the product eligibility 

requirements. Additionally, FSLogix is only supported on the following versions of Windows 

and is also subject to the products extended end date of supportability. 

Operating system bit architecture 

  ７ Note 

----------------------- Page 344-----------------------

  32-bit architecture has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no longer supported. 

   Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

      64-bit 

Client operating systems 

     Windows 10 

     Windows 11 

  ） Important 

   Includes Multi-session SKU(s) found in the Azure Marketplace 

Server operating systems 

  ７ Note 

  Support for Windows Server 2012 R2 has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no 

   longer supported. Please review the feature deprecation page for additional information. 

     Windows Server 2016 

     Windows Server 2019 

     Windows Server 2022 

     Windows Server 2025 

Support boundaries 

      If the source of an issue can't be identified in the logs captured by the FSLogix Support 

     Tool, from a memory dump, or the trace ETL files, then Microsoft support requires 

      instructions to reproduce the issue from a clean installation of Windows. 

      In cases where a virtual machine crashes, deadlocks (with or without a BSOD), or the 

      FSLogix App service crashes, Microsoft support troubleshoots from a memory dump even 

      if the issue can't be reproduced. 

      Due to the quantity of environmental variables and the various configurations, Microsoft 

     support asks that the issue is reproduced from a clean installation of Windows. This 

----------------------- Page 345-----------------------

      includes all programs and settings configured in Windows, FSLogix, and third-party 

      applications. 

      FSLogix tracks emerging issues with third-party products that are suspected to cause 

      compatibility issues and until the issues can be reproduced, these issues won't be 

      resolved from product updates. 

      FSLogix technical support assists with break fix issues and will provide deployment and 

      configuration advice as 'best effort'. 

        ） Important 

        Microsoft Consulting Services or Microsoft Partner assistance should be considered 

        under these conditions: 

            Project management 

            Large-scale deployments 

            Profile migrations 

           Complex configurations 

Open a support request 

These next sections outline the three (3) primary methods in creating a support request. 

Azure portal 

Customers who use FSLogix in the context of Azure (for example, Azure Virtual Desktop, 

Infrastructure as a Service, etc.) can create a support request via the portal under the Help + 

Support section. 

  Create Support Request 

When prompted, ensure you've selected the correct items from the drop-down lists: 

      Issue Type: Technical 

      Service: Azure Virtual Desktop 

      Problem Type: FSLogix 

Services Hub 

----------------------- Page 346-----------------------

Customers who use FSLogix in an on-premises scenario can open their support request using 

Services Hub. Depending on your support agreement with Microsoft (for example, Premier or 

Unified Support), there are two (2) options: 

      Unified Support 

         Services Hub for Unified Support 

      Microsoft support (Pay-per-incident) 

         Services Hub for Business 

                                                                         

Phone support 

      Global Customer Service phone numbers 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 347-----------------------

Microsoft.FSLogix PowerShell Module 

Article  • 04/08/2025 

The Microsoft.FSLogix PowerShell module provides cmdlets which are designed to enable IT 

administrators with the ability to troubleshoot issues with Cloud Cache remote storage 

providers. The cmdlets in this module will provide state information for Cloud Cache disks 

(registered proxy file) and the associated Cloud Cache providers (remote storage providers). 

Microsoft.FSLogix Cmdlets 

                                                                                            ﾉ   Expand table 

  Cmdlet                   Description 

  Get-CloudCacheDisk      The Get-CloudCacheDisk cmdlet is used to see what disks have been registered 
                          with Cloud Cache and their state for each signed in user. 

  Get-                    The Get-CloudCacheProvider cmdlet is used to check the status of each Cloud 
  CloudCacheProvider       Cache provider. The output of this cmdlet shows the various details of the remote 
                           storage provider as seen by the Cloud Cache service. 

   ７ Note 

   The Microsoft.FSLogix PowerShell module is preloaded into the Windows 

   $ENV :PSModulePath and is made available dynamically when called. In addition, the 

   cmdlets do not require administrative rights. 

Figure 1: Screenshot of  Get-Module details for Microsoft.FSLogix 

----------------------- Page 348-----------------------

Figure 2: Screenshot of  Get-Command details for Microsoft.FSLogix 

----------------------- Page 349-----------------------

Get-CloudCacheDisk Cmdlet 

Article  • 02/12/2025 

Module: Microsoft.FSLogix 

SYNOPSIS 

Shows the Cloud Cache disks which are registered for signed in users. 

SYNTAX 

Path (Default) 

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheDisk 
       [-Path <String>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

Id 

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheDisk 
       [-Id <Int32>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

DESCRIPTION 

This cmdlet lists all the disks registered as the default output. Alternatively, it lists the 

Cloud Cache disks by path or ID. A Cloud Cache disk is the Proxy file located at: 

%ProgramData%\FSLogix\Proxy\<profile-directory-name>\<vhd-name> 

Properties 

                                                                        ﾉ  Expand table 

----------------------- Page 350-----------------------

 Property               Value                                Description 

 ActivityId              [String]                            Used by Microsoft Support only. 

 CachePath               [String]                            The file path to the local cache disk. 
                                                             ( %ProgramData%\FSLogix\Cache) 

 CacheSizeOnDisk         [UInt64]                            The size in bytes of the local Cloud Cache 'cache' 
                                                             disk. 

 Path                    [String]                            The file path to the local Cloud Cache 'proxy' disk 
                                                             (registered disk). 

 Id                      [Int32]                             Internal identifier of the registered disk used by the 
                                                             Cloud Cache service. 

 State                  Registered                           The local Cloud Cache 'proxy' disk registered and 
                                                             ready for I/O operations. 

                        WaitingForSync                       The Cloud Cache service is holding the sign out 
                                                             process until the remote Cloud Cache disk has 
                                                             completed its sync from another remote provider. 

                        WaitingForZeroHandleCount            The Cloud Cache service is holding the sign out 
                                                             process until all I/O handles to the Cloud Cache 
                                                             'proxy' disk have been closed. 

                        WaitingForUnhealthyProviders         The Cloud Cache service is holding the user sign 
                                                             out process until 
                                                             the UnhealthyProvidersRequiredForUnregister value 
                                                             is met. 

                        WaitingForWriteQueueFlush            The Cloud Cache service is holding the user sign 
                                                             out process until all changes have been flushed to 
                                                             the remote storage providers. 

                        Unregistered                         The local Cloud Cache 'proxy' disk completed all 
                                                             operations and will soon be removed. 

EXAMPLES 

Example 1 (Direct attach) 

   PowerShell 

   PS C:\> Get-CloudCacheDisk 

----------------------- Page 351-----------------------

   Output 

   ActivityId      : d77f1d2a-696f-4d85-a910-2d93e3563828 
   CachePath       : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   CacheSizeOnDisk : 78839808 
   Path            : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Id              : 25 
   State           : Registered 

Shows all registered disks when using ProfileType 0 (direct attach). 

Example 2 (Read / Write - fallback Read Only) 

   PowerShell 

   PS C:\> Get-CloudCacheDisk 

   Output 

   ActivityId      : 25693854-65cf-4781-bb64-68250fe3967f 
   CachePath       : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\RW.VHDX 
   CacheSizeOnDisk : 748027904 
   Path            : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\RW.VHDX 
   Id              : 32 
   State           : Registered 

   ActivityId      : a829fe72-ad78-45wh-d885-4258fs0e1359q 
   CachePath       : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   CacheSizeOnDisk : 18546688 
   Path            : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Id              : 33 
   State           : Registered 

Shows all registered disks when using ProfileType 3 (read / write - fallback read only). 

Example 3 (Direct attach with wildcard) 

   PowerShell 

   PS C:\> Get-CloudCacheDisk *jdoe* 

----------------------- Page 352-----------------------

   Output 

   ActivityId      : d77f1d2a-696f-4d85-a910-2d93e3563828 
   CachePath       : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Cache\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   CacheSizeOnDisk : 78839808 
   Path            : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Id              : 25 
   State           : Registered 

Shows all registered disks for user jdoe (wildcard) when using ProfileType 0 (direct 

attach). 

PARAMETERS 

-Id 

The Cloud Cache disk registration ID. 

                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

  Item                                                           Value 

 Type                                                             [Int32] 

  Parameter Sets                                                  Id 

 Aliases 

  Required                                                        False 

  Position                                                        0 

  Default value                                                   None 

 Accept pipeline input                                           True (ByValue) 

 Accept wildcard characters                                       False 

-Path 

The path to the Cloud Cache disk (wildcards supported). 

                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 353-----------------------

  Item                                                             Value 

  Type                                                             [String] 

  Parameter Sets                                                   Path 

 Aliases 

  Required                                                         False 

  Position                                                         0 

  Default value                                                    None 

 Accept pipeline input                                             True (ByValue) 

 Accept wildcard characters                                        False 

CommonParameters 

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, - 

InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, - 

Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see 

about_CommonParameters            . 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?      Yes        No 

Provide product feedback 

----------------------- Page 354-----------------------

Get-CloudCacheProvider 

Article  • 02/12/2025 

Module: Microsoft.FSLogix 

SYNOPSIS 

Shows the state of the Cloud Cache providers (remote storage providers) that are 

associated with specific Cloud Cache disks. 

SYNTAX 

LocalPath (Default) 

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheProvider 
       [-LocalPath <String>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

Disk 

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheProvider 
       [-Disks  
   <System.Collections.Generic.List[Microsoft.FSLogix.CloudCache.File]>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

Name 

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheProvider 
       [-Name <String>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

UniqueId 

----------------------- Page 355-----------------------

   PowerShell 

   Get-CloudCacheProvider 
       [-UniqueId <String>] 
       [<CommonParameters>] 

DESCRIPTION 

This cmdlet shows the properties for each Cloud Cache provider (remote storage 

provider). Each provider will have associated properties which help indicate the state of 

the provider as it is related to the user session. 

Properties 

                                                                                          ﾉ   Expand table 

  Property                Value                    Description 

  AccessMode              ReadWrite                Cloud Cache can read and write to this providers 
                                                   disk. 

                          NoAccess                 Cloud Cache doesn't have access to the providers 
                                                   disk and would indicate a problem with the remote 
                                                   storage provider or another machine has holds the 
                                                   *.lock file. 

                          ReadOnly                 Cloud Cache can only read from this providers disk. 

  Connected               True                    The Cloud Cache service is connected to the remote 
                                                   storage provider. 

                          False                   The Cloud Cache service isn't connected to the 
                                                   remote storage provider. 

  Exists                  Yes                     The Cloud Cache disk exists on the remote storage 
                                                   provider. 

                          No                      The Cloud Cache disk doesn't exist on the remote 
                                                   storage provider. 

                          Unknown                 The state of the Cloud Cache disk is unknown. 

  LastLockOperation                                Shows the result of the last attempted I/O operation 
                                                  to the  *.lock file on the remote storage provider. 

                                                  The  *.lock file is how Cloud Cache determines the 

                                                  viability of the remote storage provider, and the 
                                                   frequency of this operation is every 60 seconds 

----------------------- Page 356-----------------------

Property               Value                   Description 

                                              (default). A provider is considered not connected 
                                              when one lock operation is unsuccessful. 

LocalPath               [String]               Displays the path of the registered Cloud Cache disk 

                                              as seen by the Cloud Cache service and is by default 
                                               located under %ProgramData%\FSLogix\Proxy. 

RemotePath              [String]               Displays the location to the Cloud Cache disks on the 

                                               remote storage provider based on type. 

Name                    [String]               Displays the value for the name of the remote 

                                              storage provider as specified in 
                                              the CCDLocations connection string. 

Size                    [UInt64]              Size in bytes of the Cloud Cache disk. 

State                  Valid                  The Cloud Cache disk on the remote storage provider 
                                              is in sync with the local Cloud Cache disk. 

                       Invalid                The local Cloud Cache disk is different than the 
                                               remote provider and will be synced from a valid 
                                               provider. 

                       Replicating            The Cloud Cache disk on the remote storage provider 
                                              is replicating from a valid Cloud Cache disk (remote 
                                               provider). 

                       WaitingForFileOpen     The Cloud Cache service is waiting to access the 
                                               remote Cloud Cache disk pending the local Cloud 

                                              Cache disk mount process. 

                       Unknown                The remote Cloud Cache disk is unavailable and can't 
                                              determine its state. 

Type                   Smb                     Remote storage provider is an SMB file share. 

                       AzureBlob               Remote storage provider is an Azure Blob. 

UniqueId                [Int32]               A unique ID generated for each Cloud Cache disk 
                                              during the sign in operation and used in all areas of 
                                               FSLogix logs and events. 

Uptime                  [Timespan]            The duration since the first successful lock operation. 
                                              This value resets when the LastLockOperation fails 
                                              and then succeeds. 

WriteQueueLength        [Int32]               This value shows the number of changes which are 
                                               pending in the queue file for the specified remote 
                                              storage provider. A value of 0 indicates the remote 
                                               provider in sync with the local Cloud Cache disk. 

----------------------- Page 357-----------------------

EXAMPLES 

Example 1 

   PowerShell 

   PS C:\> Get-CloudCacheProvider 

   Output 

   AccessMode        : ReadWrite 
   Connected         : True 
   Exists            : Yes 
   LastLockOperation : Heartbeat succeeded ('35 ms') 
   LocalPath         : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   RemotePath        : \\my-smb-file-share\profiles\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Name              : MySMBFileShare 
   Size              : 1735573504 
   State             : Valid 
   Type              : Smb 
   UniqueId          : 7011300413686398469 
   Uptime            : 01:29:29.3830000 
   WriteQueueLength  : 0 

   AccessMode        : ReadWrite 
   Connected         : True 
   Exists            : Yes 
   LastLockOperation : Heartbeat succeeded ('10 ms') 
   LocalPath         : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   RemotePath        : https://my-azure-blob.blob.core.windows.net/jdoe-s-1-5- 
   21-0000000000-568058721-0000000000-1110/Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Name              : MyAzureBlob 
   Size              : 1735573504 
   State             : Valid 
   Type              : AzureBlob 
   UniqueId          : 10107299548795657846 
   Uptime            : 01:29:29.3940000 
   WriteQueueLength  : 0 

The cmdlet can be run with no parameters or input, and it returns every provider for 

every Cloud Cache user that is signed in. 

Example 2 

   PowerShell 

----------------------- Page 358-----------------------

   PS C:\> Get-CloudCacheDisk -Id 25 | Get-CloudCacheProvider 

   Output 

   AccessMode        : ReadWrite 
   Connected         : True 
   Exists            : Yes 
   LastLockOperation : Heartbeat succeeded ('35 ms') 
   LocalPath         : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   RemotePath        : \\my-smb-file-share\profiles\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Name              : MySMBFileShare 
   Size              : 1735573504 
   State             : Valid 
   Type              : Smb 
   UniqueId          : 7011300413686398469 
   Uptime            : 01:29:29.3830000 
   WriteQueueLength  : 0 

   AccessMode        : ReadWrite 
   Connected         : True 
   Exists            : Yes 
   LastLockOperation : Heartbeat succeeded ('10 ms') 
   LocalPath         : C:\ProgramData\FSLogix\Proxy\jdoe_S-1-5-21-0000000000- 
   568058721-0000000000-1110\Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   RemotePath        : https://my-azure-blob.blob.core.windows.net/jdoe-s-1-5- 
   21-0000000000-568058721-0000000000-1110/Profile_jdoe.VHDX 
   Name              : MyAzureBlob 
   Size              : 1735573504 
   State             : Valid 
   Type              : AzureBlob 
   UniqueId          : 10107299548795657846 
   Uptime            : 01:29:29.3940000 
   WriteQueueLength  : 0 

Uses the Get-CloudCacheDisk cmdlet to narrow the scope of the results from this 

cmdlet. This example gets the Cloud Cache disk with ID 25 and then pipe the object to 

this cmdlet for the results. 

PARAMETERS 

-Disks 

The cloud cache disk (see 'Get-CloudCacheDisk') 

----------------------- Page 359-----------------------

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

  Item                     Value 

 Type                       <System.Collections.Generic.List[Microsoft.FSLogix.CloudCache.File]> 

  Parameter Sets            Disk 

 Aliases 

  Required                  False 

  Position                  0 

  Default value             None 

 Accept pipeline input     True (ByValue) 

 Accept wildcard            False 
  characters 

-LocalPath 

The cloud cache disk local path (wildcards supported). 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

  Item                                                             Value 

 Type                                                               [String] 

  Parameter Sets                                                    LocalPath 

 Aliases 

  Required                                                          False 

  Position                                                         0 

  Default value                                                     None 

 Accept pipeline input                                             True (ByValue) 

 Accept wildcard characters                                         False 

-Name 

The cloud cache provider name (wildcards supported). 

----------------------- Page 360-----------------------

                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Item                                                                    Value 

 Type                                                                      [String] 

  Parameter Sets                                                           Name 

 Aliases 

  Required                                                                 False 

  Position                                                                 Named 

  Default value                                                            None 

 Accept pipeline input                                                     False 

 Accept wildcard characters                                                False 

-UniqueId 

The cloud cache provider unique identifier (wildcards supported). 

                                                                                   ﾉ    Expand table 

  Item                                                                    Value 

 Type                                                                      [String] 

  Parameter Sets                                                           UniqueId 

 Aliases 

  Required                                                                 False 

  Position                                                                 Named 

  Default value                                                            None 

 Accept pipeline input                                                     False 

 Accept wildcard characters                                                False 

CommonParameters 

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, - 

InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, - 

----------------------- Page 361-----------------------

Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see 

about_CommonParameters        . 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?  Yes       No 

Provide product feedback 

----------------------- Page 362-----------------------

frx command-line utility 

Article  • 03/31/2023 

frx is a command-line utility which provides management and configuration of an 

FSLogix configuration. The utility manages rules, profiles and containers, search, 

credential manager, and other miscellaneous functions. The frx utility can be found at 

 C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps. 

Commands 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

  Command               Description 

  help, ?               Display this help message 

 version                Display the versions of the loaded components 

Rules 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

  Command                      Description 

  add-redirect                 Add a new folder redirection 

  add-rule                     Add the specified rule 

  create-ruleset               Creates a Rule Set 

  del-redirect                 Delete an active folder redirection 

  del-rule                     Delete the specified rule 

  list-redirects               List currently active folder redirections 

  list-rules                   List currently loaded rules 

  reload-rules                 Reload rules from cache 

Profiles and virtual containers 

                                                                                    ﾉ   Expand table 

----------------------- Page 363-----------------------

 Command                    Description 

 copy-profile               Copy a user's profile into a VHD or VHDX 

 copyto-vhd                 Copy a folder and its contents to a VHD or VHDX 

 create-vhd                 Create and format a VHD or VHDX 

 edit-profile               Edit profile contents contained in a VHD or VHDX 

  begin-edit-profile        Attaches the specified VHD or VHDX and the registry hive 

 end-edit-profile           Detaches the specified VHD or VHDX and the registry hive 

 export-profilecfg          Export profile configuration settings to file 

  import-profilecfg         Import profile configuration settings from file 

  migrate-vhd               Migrates the contents of an existing VHD to a new one 

  moveto-vhd                Move a folder and its contents to a VHD or VHDX 

 set-profile-redir          Sets the profile's folder redirections configuration 

Search component 

                                                                                      ﾉ   Expand table 

 Command                                Description 

  reset-user-search-db                  Reindex a user's search index database. 

Credential Manager key management 

                                                                                      ﾉ   Expand table 

 Command                   Description 

 add-secure-key            Add a secure key to Credential Manager 

 del-secure-key            Delete a secure key from Credential Manager 

  list-secure-key          list the keys that are contained in Credential Manager 

Miscellaneous 

----------------------- Page 364-----------------------

                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

  Command                     Description 

  create-junction             Creates a junction point to a target volume or folder 

  enable-shnot                Enables shell refresh notification 

  regfont                     Registers a font in the system font table 

  report-assignment           Rule Set applicability reporting 

  show-junction-info          Shows information about a junction point 

  unregfont                   Removes a font from the system font table 

  start-agent                 Starts all drivers and services comprising the agent 

  stop-agent                  Stops all drivers and services comprising the agent 

frx version 

Displays the versions of the loaded components 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx version 

Rules 

frx add-redirect 

Add a new path redirection for the virtualization driver 

   Console 

       frx add-redirect -src <path> 
                        -dest <path> 

Required Parameters 

----------------------- Page 365-----------------------

 -source or  -src 

Specifies the source path to redirect. 

 -destination or  -dest 

Specifies the path to act as redirection target. 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx add-redirect -src C:\mysource -dest d:\mytest 
       frx add-redirect -src C:\mysource -dest \\?\VolumeXXXXX\Test 

frx add-rule 

Add a specific rule. 

   Console 

       frx add-rule -hide <params> 
                    -printer <params> 
                    -redirect <params> 
                    -specific-data <params> 
                    -vhd-attach <params> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx add-rule -hide -src-parent C:\Windows 
       frx add-rule -hide -src-parent \Registry\User\*\Software -src MySoftware   
       frx add-rule -redirect -src-parent C:\Windows -src=test.ini -dest-parent  
   __USER_PROFILE_PATH__ -dest test.ini 
       frx add-rule -specific-data -src-parent \Registry\Machine\Software -src  
   Value -datatype DWORD -data 42000000 
       frx add-rule -vhd-attach -src-parent C:\MyVolFolder -dest  
   C:\VHDs\mydisk.vhd 

Required Parameters 

 -src-parent 

----------------------- Page 366-----------------------

Parent directory/key or printer to which the rule applies. 

Optional Parameters 

 -src 

File or value name 

 -dest-parent 

Destination directory or key (redirection rules only). 

 -dest 

Destination file or value (redirection rules only). 

 -no-copy 

Creates a blank copy of the item upon redirection if it does not exist (default is to copy 

the source item). 

 -volatile 

Volatile rule that will not persist across a machine reboot. 

 -datatype 

Type of specific data to return (SZ, DWORD). 

 -data 

Hexadecimal representation of data to return. 

Special Variables 

Usable in  -dest-parent or  -dest parameters. 

                                                                                  ﾉ   Expand table 

 Variable                                              Description 

  __USER_SID__                                         User's SID 

  __USER_NAME__                                        User's username 

  __USER_PROFILE_PATH__                                Path to users profile 

----------------------- Page 367-----------------------

frx create-ruleset 

Creates a Rule Set by scanning the specified install directory. 

   Console 

       frx create-ruleset -filename <path> 
                          -install-dir <path> 
                          -ARP-keyname <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx create-ruleset-name Chrome -install-dir "C:\Program  
   Files\Google\Chrome\Application" -ARP-keyname  
   "HKLM\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Uninstall\Google  
   Chrome" 

Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the name of the file to be created. 

 -install-dir 

Specifies the installation path of the application to be scanned. 

 -ARP-keyname 

Specifies the Add/Remove program registry location. 

frx del-redirect 

Deletes an active redirect. 

   Console 

       frx del-redirect -source <path> 

Examples 

----------------------- Page 368-----------------------

   Console 

       frx del-redirect -source C:\MyData\Docs 

Parameters 

 -source 

Specifies the source folder to remove redirection from. 

frx del-rule 

Delete the specified rule. 

   Console 

       frx del-rule -src-parent <path> 
                    -src <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx del-rule -src-parent C:\Windows -src test.ini 
       frx del-rule -hide -src-parent \Registry\User\*\Software -src MySoftware 

Required Parameters 

 -src-parent 

Parent directory or key to which to rule applies. 

Optional Parameters 

 -src 

File or value name. 

frx list-redirects 

Lists the current active folder redirections. 

----------------------- Page 369-----------------------

   Console 

       frx list-redirects 

frx list-rules 

Lists all rules loaded in the system. 

   Console 

       frx list-rules -verbose 

Optional Parameters 

 -verbose 

Displays additional information about the rule. 

frx reload-rules 

Reloads the rules. Can be specific to one file of rules, or apply to all rules. 

   ７ Note 

   Reloading rules has no affect on volatile rules. 

   Console 

       frx reload-rules -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx reload-rules -filename Rules.fxr 

Optional Parameters 

 -filename 

----------------------- Page 370-----------------------

Specifies the rules file to be reloaded. 

Profiles and Virtual Containers 

frx copy-profile 

   ２ Warning 

   If the local profile size exceeds 5 GB, you must specify the  -size-mbs parameter 

   with a size greater than 5000. 

Copy a user's profile into a VHD or VHDX. If the VHD or VHDX file does not exist, it will 

be created. 

   Console 

       frx copy-profile -filename <path> 
                        -username <username or domain\username> 
                        -sid <sid> 
                        -size-mbs <int> 
                        -vhdx-sector-size <int> 
                        -dynamic <1 or 0> 
                        -src-parent <path> 
                        -verbose <switch> 
                        -profile-path <path> 
                        -label <string> 
                        -redirections <path> 

Examples 

Local profile less than 5 GB 

   Console 

       frx copy-profile -filename C:\Profile.vhd -username CONTOSO\msmith 

Local profile greater than 5 GB 

   Console 

       frx copy-profile -filename C:\Profile.vhd -username CONTOSO\msmith - 
   size-mbs 30000 

----------------------- Page 371-----------------------

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHD(x) file. 

 -username 

Specified as Username or DOMAIN\Username 

 -sid 

Used in place of  -username to identify the profile. 

Optional Parameters 

 -size-mbs 

Size in number of MBs for new VHD/VHDX 

 -vhdx-sector-size 

VHDX sector size 

 -dynamic 

Set to 1 for dynamic, 0 for fixed disk 

 -src-parent 

Path the the parent VHDX file for differencing disks 

 -verbose 

Enables verbose output 

 -profile-path 

Specify the profile path 

 -label 

Disk volume label (default is Profile) 

 -redirections 

Specify the redirections file to copy to the profile 

----------------------- Page 372-----------------------

frx copyto-vhd 

Copy a folder and its contents to a VHD or VHDX 

   Console 

       frx copyto-vhd -filename <path> 
                      -src <path> 
                      -dest <path> 
                      -size-mbs <int> 
                      -vhdx-sector-size <int> 
                      -dynamic <1 or 0> 
                      -verbose <switch> 
                      -src-parent <path> 
                      -label <string> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx copyto-vhd -filename C:\mydisk.vhd -src C:\data 

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

 -src 

Specifies the source folder to copy 

Optional Parameters 

 -dest 

Specifies the target folder in the VHDX file. Default destination is the VHDX root folder. 

 -size-mbs 

Size in number of MBs for new VHD/VHDX 

 -vhdx-sector-size 

VHDX sector size 

----------------------- Page 373-----------------------

 -dynamic 

Set to 1 for dynamic, 0 for fixed disk 

 -verbose 

Enables verbose output 

 -label 

Disk volume label (default is Profile) 

frx create-vhd 

Create and format a VHD or VHDX. By default the VHD or VHDX will be 30 GBs and 

sized dynamically. 

   Console 

       frx create-vhd -filename <path> 
                      -size-mbs <int> 
                      -vhdx-sector-size <int> 
                      -dynamic <1 or 0> 
                      -src-parent <path> 
                      -label <string> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx create-vhd -filename C:\Profile.vhd 

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

Optional Parameters 

 -size-mbs 

Size in number of MBs for new VHD/VHDX 

----------------------- Page 374-----------------------

 -vhdx-sector-size 

VHDX sector size 

 -dynamic 

Set to 1 for dynamic, 0 for fixed disk 

 -src-parent 

Path the the parent VHDX file for differencing disks 

 -label 

Disk volume label (default is Profile) 

frx edit-profile 

Attaches the specified VHD or VHDX and opens an Explorer Window and Registry editor 

so the contents of the profile can be viewed and edited. 

   Console 

       frx edit-profile -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx edit-profile -filename C:\Profile.vhd 

Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

frx begin-edit-profile 

Attaches the specified VHD or VHDX and attaches the registry hive so the contents of 

the profile can be viewed and edited. 

   Console 

----------------------- Page 375-----------------------

       frx begin-edit-profile -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx begin-edit-profile -filename C:\Profile.vhd 

Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

frx end-edit-profile 

Detaches the specified VHD or VHDX and the registry hive 

   Console 

       frx end-edit-profile -cookie <string> 
                            -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx end-edit-profile -cookie 4876 -filename C:\Profile.vhd 

Parameters 

 -cookie 

Specifies the cookie printed out from the begin-edit-profile call. 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

----------------------- Page 376-----------------------

frx export-profilecfg 

Exports profile configuration settings and inclusion/exclusion group membership to a 

file. The settings can be imported later with the import-profilecfg command. 

   Console 

       frx export-profilecfg -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx export-profilecfg -filename my_configuration.frxconfig 

Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the file for the configuration data to be stored. 

frx import-profilecfg 

Imports profile configuration settings and inclusion/exclusion group membership from 

file. This file can be generated with the export-profilecfg command. 

   Console 

       frx import-profilecfg -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx import-profilecfg -filename my_configuration.frxconfig 

Parameters 

 -filename 

----------------------- Page 377-----------------------

Specifies the file for the configuration data to be stored. 

frx migrate-vhd 

Creates, formats a VHD or VHDX, and mirrors the contents of the source VHD. By default 

the VHD or VHDX will be 30 GBs and sized dynamically. 

   Console 

       frx migrate-vhd -src <path> 
                       -dest <path> 
                       -size-mbs <int> 
                       -vhdx-sector-size <int> 
                       -dynamic <0 or 1> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx migrate-vhd -src C:\old\Profile.vhd -dest C:\new\Profile.vhd 

Required Parameters 

 -src 

Specifies the path to the source VHDX file 

 -dest 

Specifies the new VHDX filename. 

Optional Parameters 

 -size-mbs 

Size in number of MBs for new VHD/VHDX 

 -vhdx-sector-size 

VHDX sector size 

 -dynamic 

Set to 1 for dynamic, 0 for fixed disk 

----------------------- Page 378-----------------------

frx moveto-vhd 

Moves a folder along with all its sub-folders and files to a VHD(X) disk. 

   Console 

       frx moveto-vhd -filename <path> 
                      -src <path> 
                      -dest <path> 
                      -size-mbs <int> 
                      -vhdx-sector-size <int> 
                      -dynamic <1 or 0> 
                      -verbose <switch> 
                      -src-parent <path> 
                      -label <string> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx moveto-vhd -filename C:\mydisk.vhd -src C:\data 

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

 -src 

Specifies the source folder to move 

Optional Parameters 

 -dest 

Specifies the target folder in the VHDX file. Default destination is the VHDX root folder. 

 -size-mbs 

Size in number of MBs for new VHD/VHDX 

 -vhdx-sector-size 

VHDX sector size 

----------------------- Page 379-----------------------

 -dynamic 

Set to 1 for dynamic, 0 for fixed disk 

 -verbose 

Enables verbose output 

 -label 

Disk volume label (default is Profile) 

frx set-profile-redir 

Sets the profile's folder redirections configuration 

   Console 

       frx set-profile-redir -filename <path> 
                             -redirections <path> 
                             -no-redirections <switch> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx set-profile-redir -filename C:\Profile.vhd -redirections  
   C:\redir.xml 

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the VHDX file 

Optional Parameters 

 -redirections 

Specify the redirections file to copy to the profile. 

 -no-redirections 

Remove any exiting redirections from the profile. 

----------------------- Page 380-----------------------

Search Component 

frx reset-user-search-db 

Re-index a user's search index database. 

   Console 

       frx reset-user-search-db -username <username or domain\username> 
                                -sid <sid> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx reset-user-search-db -username DOMAIN\USERNAME 

Parameters 

 -username 

Specify username or DOMAIN\username. 

 -sid 

Specify the users SID instead of using  -username 

Credential Manager Key Management 

frx add-secure-key 

Add a secure key to Credential Manager. 

   Console 

       frx add-secure-key -key <string> 
                          -value <string> 

Examples 

----------------------- Page 381-----------------------

   Console 

       frx add-secure-key -key fslogix -value secretStringABC123 

Parameters 

 -key 

Specifies the key name for the credential. 

 -value 

Specifies the value for the desired key. 

frx del-secure-key 

Delete a secure key from Credential Manager 

   Console 

       frx del-secure-key -key <string> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx del-secure-key -key fslogix 

Parameters 

 -key 

Specifies the key name for the credential. 

frx list-secure-key 

List the keys that are contained in Credential Manager 

   Console 

       frx list-secure-key  

----------------------- Page 382-----------------------

Miscellaneous 

frx create-j unction 

Creates a junction point to a target volume or folder 

   Console 

       frx create-junction -src <path> 
                           -dest <path> 
                           -name <string> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx create-junction -src E:\ -dest \\Volume{2dd97d8a-3bab-11e1-b9ff- 
   080027e238aa} 

Required Parameters 

 -src 

Specifies the drive or folder where the junction point will be added. 

 -dest 

Specifies the target folder or volume. 

Optional Parameters 

 -name 

Optional display name. 

frx enable-shnot 

Enables shell refresh notification 

   Console 

----------------------- Page 383-----------------------

       frx enable-shnot -true <switch> 
                        -false <switch> 
                        -force <switch> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx enable-shnot -force 

Optional Parameters 

 -true 

Enables notifications 

 -false 

Disables notifications 

 -force 

Forces immediate notification if enabled. 

frx regfont 

Registers a font in the system font table 

   Console 

       frx regfont -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx regfont -filename C:\myfont.ttf 

Parameters 

----------------------- Page 384-----------------------

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the font file. 

frx report-assignment 

Reports on the applicability and non-applicability of a Rule Set by analyzing the 

assignment file and Active Directory. 

   Console 

       frx report-assignment -filename <path> 
                             -username <LDAP> 
                             -verbose <switch> 
                             -csv <switch> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx report-assignment -filename C:\test.fxa -username  
   "CN=User,DC=domain" 

Required Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the assignment file. 

Optional Parameters 

 -username 

Reports the applicability of the assignment file for the user specified (distinguished 

name). 

 -verbose 

Enables verbose output. 

 -csv 

Enables output in comma separated value (CSV) format. 

----------------------- Page 385-----------------------

frx show-j unction-info 

Shows junction point information on the specified folder. 

   Console 

       frx show-junction-info -src <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx show-junction-info -src E:\ 

Parameters 

 -src 

Specifies from which drive or folder the information is gathered from. 

frx unregfont 

Removes a font from the system font table 

   Console 

       frx unregfont -filename <path> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frx unregfont -filename C:\myfont.ttf 

Parameters 

 -filename 

Specifies the path to the font file. 

----------------------- Page 386-----------------------

frx start-agent 

Starts all drivers and services comprising the agent 

   Console 

       frx start-agent 

frx stop-agent 

Stops all drivers and services comprising the agent 

   Console 

       frx stop-agent 

Feedback 

Was this page helpful?    Yes       No 

Provide product feedback 

----------------------- Page 387-----------------------

frxcontext command-line utility 

Article  • 04/08/2025 

frxcontext is a command-line utility which adds to the context menu for VHD(x) files. When 

installed, a new context menu item appears for VHD(x) file which mounts the VHD, loads the 

registry, and opens Windows Explorer. The frxcontext utility can be found at  C:\Program 

Files\FSLogix\Apps. 

   Console 

       frxcontext --install <switch> 
                  --uninstall <switch> 
                  --install-per-user <switch> 
                  --uninstall-per-user <switch> 

       frxcontext <path-to-vhd> 

Examples 

   Console 

       frxcontext --install 
       frxcontext \\<server-name>\<share- 
   name>\%username%_%sid%\Profile_%username%.vhdx 

----------------------- Page 388-----------------------

Parameters 

 --install 

Install FSLogix container management to the Windows context menu for vhd(x) files. Installs for 

all users. 

 --uninstall 

Uninstall FSLogix container management from the windows context menu. Uninstalls for all 

users. 

 --install-per-user 

Install FSLogix container management to the Windows context menu for vhd(x) files. Install for 

the current (logged in) user. 

 --uninstall-per-user 

Uninstall FSLogix container management from the windows context menu. Uninstalls for the 

current (logged in) user. 

----------------------- Page 389-----------------------

７ Note 

FSLogix container files aren't special files. Windows provides native capability to mount 

and explore the container. The frxcontext utility is only provided as an aid. 

----------------------- Page 390-----------------------

Configuration Setting Reference 

08/26/2025 

This article outlines the various registry settings applicable to FSLogix that includes, but not 

limited to: 

      App Services 

      Profile containers 

      ODFC containers 

      Cloud Cache 

      Logging 

Default settings 

After installing FSLogix, the installer will create a base set of registry keys and values, which 

provides the framework for adding configuration settings. FSLogix doesn't create ANY 

configuration setting value names as part of the installation. Any configuration setting listed on 

this page which has a 'Default value' doesn't need to be created or configured as FSLogix will 

automatically use the default value as listed. 

For example, the RoamIdentity setting has a default value as ' 0 '. FSLogix won't roam identity 

data as a default behavior and doesn't need an Administrator to create or add the registry 

value name and value. Only if the desire is to change the default behavior of the setting would 

the Administrator create or add the registry value name and value. 

Base registry keys and value names 

       [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\FSLogix] 

         \Apps 

             "InstallPath"="C:\Program Files\FSLogix\Apps\" 

             "InstallVersion"="version_number" 

         \Logging 

         \Profiles 

         \SystemInfo 

         \Telemetry 

         \UserModeDll 

      [ HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Policies\FSLogix] 

         \ODFC 

----------------------- Page 391-----------------------

Custom environment variables 

Some FSLogix settings accept environment variables. These settings accept the list of custom 

environment variables and any variables available during the user's sign in. 

FSLogix custom variables: 

                                                                                           ﾉ    Expand table 

 Variable             Description 

  %username%          SAMAcountName for the signed in user. 

  %userdomain%        NETBIOS domain name where the user's account resides. 

  %sid%               Security Identifier 

  %osmajor%           Major version of the operating systems as seen in:  HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows 

                      NT\CurrentVersion\CurrentMajorVersionNumber 

  %osminor%           Minor version of the operating systems as seen in:  HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows 

                      NT\CurrentVersion\CurrentMinorVersionNumber 

  %osbuild%           Build version of the operating systems as seen in:  HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows 

                      NT\CurrentVersion\CurrentBuildNumber 

  %osservicepack%     Legacy to Windows service packs, no longer used. 

  %profileversion%    Version of profile based on Windows version. 

  %clientname%        The COMPUTERNAME of the client initiating the connection to the host. 

App Services Settings 

The following settings are applicable to FSLogix and not specific to profile or ODFC containers 

or Cloud Cache. 

CleanupInvalidSessions 

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE 

Registry Path: SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Apps 

Value Name: CleanupInvalidSessions 

Value Type: DWORD 

----------------------- Page 392-----------------------

Enabled Value: 1 

Disabled Value: 0 (default) 

In cases where a user's session terminates abruptly, the VHD(x) mounted for the user's profile 

isn't properly detached and the user's next sign in may not successfully attach their VHD(x) 

container. Enable this setting and FSLogix attempts to clean up these invalid sessions and allow 

a successful sign-in. This setting affects both Profile and ODFC containers. 

RoamRecycleBin 

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE 

Registry Path: SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Apps 

Value Name: RoamRecycleBin 

Value Type: DWORD 

Enabled Value: 1 (default) 

Disabled Value: 0 

When enabled, this setting creates a redirection for the user's specific Recycle Bin into the 

VHD(x) container. This allows the user to restore items regardless of the machine from where 

they were deleted. 

VHDCompactDisk 

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE 

Registry Path: SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Apps 

Value Name: VHDCompactDisk 

Value Type: DWORD 

Enabled Value: 1 (default) 

Disabled Value: 0 

When enabled, this setting attempts to compact the VHD disk during the sign out operation 

and is designed to automatically decrease the  Size On Disk of the user's container depending 

on a predefined threshold. For more information, see the VHD Disk Compaction 

documentation. 

----------------------- Page 393-----------------------

FSLogix Settings (Profile, ODFC, Cloud Cache, 
Logging) 

  Profile Settings 

  Profile container Settings 

  The following settings are applicable to profile containers and are created in the following 

  location: 

        Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE 

        Registry Path: SOFTWARE\FSLogix\Profiles 

  AccessNetworkAsComputerObj ect 

  Type: DWORD 

  Default Value: 0 

  Data values and use: 

        0: default – attach as user. 

        1: attach as computer - folder must have permissions for computer objects. 

     Ｕ Caution 

     Don't use this configuration setting unless your storage provider or architecture will 

     NOT work with user-level permissions to the VHD(x) container locations. This setting 

     allows the virtual machine to access all the VHD(x) files on the storage provider, 

     creating a potential security risk. 

  AttachVHDSDDL 

  Type: REG_SZ 

  Default Value: N/A 

  Data values and use: 

  SDDL string representing the ACLs to use when attaching the VHD(x). 

----------------------- Page 394-----------------------

CleanOutNotifications 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 1 

Data values and use: 

      0: No action. 

      1: Cleans out stale notification entries. 

This setting cleans out stale entries created by the Windows Push Notification Platform 

(WPN) and Windows Notification Facility (WFN), which under some conditions leads to 

slow sign-ins. 

DeleteLocalProfileWhenVHDShouldApply 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: No action. 

      1: Deletes local profile if it exists and matches the profile container. 

   ） Important 

   When FSLogix determines a user should have an FSLogix profile container, and a local 

   profile exists, FSLogix will permanently delete the local profile. 

DiffDiskParentFolderPath 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value: %TEMP% 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the path where difference disks are created when ProfileType is configured to 

use them. The path supports the use of the FSLogix custom variables or any environment 

variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. 

----------------------- Page 395-----------------------

Enabled 

(required setting) 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Profile containers disabled. 

      1: Profile containers enabled. 

FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: SID folder is created as  %sid%_%username% 

      1: SID folder is created as %username%_%sid% 

  ） Important 

   Be sure you understand how conflicting settings are applied and prioritized. 

        This setting will OVERRIDE both SIDDirNameMatch and SIDDirNamePattern 

        This setting has NO EFFECT when  NoProfileContainingFolder is enabled 

        NoProfileContainingFolder > FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName > (SIDDirNameMatch 

        and SIDDirNamePattern) 

GroupPolicyState 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 1 

Data values and use: 

      0: Don't roam Group Policy state, provides synchronous policy processing at sign-in. 

      1: Roam Group Policy state, provides asynchronous policy processing at sign-in. 

----------------------- Page 396-----------------------

   ７ Note 

   This setting can't be set using Group Policy. 

IgnoreNonWVD 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: FSLogix is enabled for any session. 

      1: FSLogix is enabled for Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) sessions only. 

   ７ Note 

   Windows Virtual Desktop (WVD) is now known as Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD), 

   though the name of the setting uses the legacy name. 

InstallAppxPackages 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 1 

Data values and use: 

When enabled (1), this setting reads the AppxPackages.xml manifest file from the user's 

profile and installs / re-registers the list of applications. The AppxPackages.xml file can be 

found at:  %LocalAppData%\FSLogix\AppxPackages.xml. This setting does control the global 

behavior in Windows for all AppX applications. This only improves functionality when used 

with FSLogix. 

   ２ Warning 

   The AppxPackages.xml file isn't meant to be edited or modified. Editing this file might 

   cause unexpected results and the file is overwritten at each sign out. 

IsDynamic 

----------------------- Page 397-----------------------

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 1 

Data values and use: 

      0: VHD(x) is of a fixed size and the size on disk is fully allocated. 

      1: VHD(x) is dynamic and only increases the size on disk as necessary. 

   ７ Note 

        This setting is used with the SizeInMBs setting to manage the size of profile 

         containers. Setting IsDynamic to 1 causes the Profile container to use the 

         minimum space on disk, regardless of the allocated SizeInMBs. As space is 

         consumed, the size on disk grows up to the size specified in SizeInMBs. 

         SizeInMBs is the maximum size that a user is allowed to use on disk. If the user's 

         profile container grows beyond what is specified in SizeInMBs the user 

         experiences errors. 

         Setting IsDynamic to 1 does NOT allow the Profile container to grow larger than 

        what is specified in SizeInMBs. 

KeepLocalDir 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: The  local_%username%  is deleted during sign out. 

      1: The  local_%username%  folder will be left on the system, after sign out. It's also used 

      again if the same user signs on. 

LockedRetryCount 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 12 

Data values and use: 

----------------------- Page 398-----------------------

Specifies the number of retries attempted when a VHD(x) file is locked (open by another 

process or computer). 

LockedRetryInterval 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 5 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the number of seconds to wait between retries (see LockedRetryCount). 

NoProfileContainingFolder 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Profile container doesn't use or create a SID containing folder for the VHD(x) file. 

This setting is intended for situations where storage provides a location that is already 

unique per-user. 

   ） Important 

   Be sure you understand how conflicting settings are applied and prioritized. 

         This setting overrides ANY O THER setting related to container folders. 

            SIDDIRNameMatch has NO EFFECT when used in conjunction with this 

            setting. 

            SIDDIRNamePattern has NO EFFECT when used in conjunction with this 

            setting. 

            FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName has NO EFFECT when used in conjunction with 

            this setting. 

OutlookCachedMode 

Type: DWORD 

----------------------- Page 399-----------------------

Default Value: 1 

Data values and use: 

      0: Prevents FSLogix from doing anything with cached mode. 

      1: Only when the Profile container is attached, the Outlook setting that enables 

      cached mode is temporarily set until the container is detached. This setting ensures 

      cached mode is used only when the container is attached. 

   ） Important 

        Outlook must be configured for online mode for this feature to work. This 

        insures if FSLogix gets disabled, that large OST files won't be downloaded. 

        Online mode registry entry: 

         HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Policies\Microsoft\office\16.0\Outlook\OST\NoOS 

        T:DWORD = 2 . 

        FSLogix overrides this setting for the current user. 

PreventLoginWithFailure 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

When enabled (1) FSLogix loads the FRXShell if there's a failure attaching to, or using an 

existing profile VHD(x). The user receives the default prompt to call support, and the users 

only option is to sign out. 

PreventLoginWithTempProfile 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

When enabled (1) FSLogix loads the FRXShell if it determines a temp profile has been 

created. The user receives the default prompt to call support, and the users only option is 

to sign out. 

----------------------- Page 400-----------------------

ProfileDirSDDL 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value: N/A 

Data values and use: 

SDDL string representing the ACLs to use when creating the profile directory. 

ProfileType 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Normal profile behavior. 

      1: Machine should only be the RW profile instance. 

      2: Machine should only be the RO profile instance. 

      3: Machine should try to take the RW role and if it can't, it should fall back to a RO 

      role. 

   ） Important 

         All sessions trying to use the VHD concurrently must have a matching 

         ProfileType setting. If the VHD isn't accessed concurrently,  ProfileType should 

         be 0. 

         OneDrive doesn't support multiple simultaneous connections/multiple 

         concurrent connections using the same profile under any circumstances. For 

         more information, see Use the sync app on virtual desktops. 

ReAttachRetryCount 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 60 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the number of times the system should attempt to reattach the VHD(x) container 

if it disconnects unexpectedly. 

----------------------- Page 401-----------------------

ReAttachIntervalSeconds 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 10 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the number of seconds to wait between retries when attempting to reattach the 

VHD(x) container if it's disconnected unexpectedly. 

RebootOnUserLogoff 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Reboot when any user signs out. 

      2: Reboot when an FSLogix profile user signs out. 

RedirectType 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 2 

Data values and use: 

      1: Use legacy redirection. 

      2: Use FSLogix advanced redirection. 

  Ｕ Caution 

   Don't use this setting unless directed by Microsoft Support. 

RedirXMLSourceFolder 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value: N/A 

----------------------- Page 402-----------------------

Data values and use: 

Path where FSLogix looks for the redirections.xml file to copy from and into the user's 

profile. The path supports the use of the FSLogix custom variables or any environment 

variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. For example, 

C:\Windows\System32 or  \\<server-name>\<share-name> 

   ７ Note 

   Don't add the file name to the path. This setting is a folder path only. 

RemoveOrphanedOSTFilesOnLogoff 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Duplicate OST files are deleted during sign out. 

   ７ Note 

   In rare cases, duplicate OST files are created for a user. This circumstance has been 

   documented to occur with and without the use of a non-persistent profile. When the 

   profile is stored in the standard file system, administrators might remove orphaned or 

   stale OST files by deleting them. When using FSLogix, the OST file is in the container 

   and isn't as visible. Over long periods of time, duplicate OST files might consume 

   incremental disk space. When enabled (1), FSLogix deletes all OST files in a VHD(x), 

   except the OST with the latest modify date. Administrators should be familiar with the 

   use of OST files, and potential implications, before choosing to enable this setting. 

RoamIdentity 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Don't roam identity data. (recommended) 

----------------------- Page 403-----------------------

      1: Enables legacy roaming for identity data. 

Under some identity and authentication scenarios, user's may be required to authenticate 

to their Microsoft 365 applications at every sign-in. Enabling this setting is one way to 

resolve the issue. We recommend working towards true single sign-on which allows your 

Windows sign-in to pass its credential to your Microsoft 365 applications. 

For more details, refer to our deletion based profile exclusions. 

   ） Important 

         The default setting is to not roam identity data which is the recommended 

         setting. 

         Do NOT enable this setting if you use Microsoft Intune to manage your 

         devices or if your devices are Microsoft Entra joined. 

RoamSearch 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Enable single-user search. 

      2: Enable multi-user search. 

For more information, see Configure Windows Search database roaming. 

   ） Important 

         FSLogix search roaming functionality is no longer necessary in newer versions of 
         Windows1 

         RoamSearch is set prior to GPOs being applied. It isn't possible to rely on GPOs 

         to set RoamSearch in environments where a GoldImage is applied at boot. 

   1 Windows Server 2019 version 1809 and later, Windows 10 and 11 multi-session 

SetTempToLocalPath 

----------------------- Page 404-----------------------

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 3 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Redirect TEMP and TMP to the local drive. 

      2: Redirect INetCache to the local drive. 

      3: Redirect TEMP, TMP, and INetCache to the local drive. 

ShutdownOnUserLogoff 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Disabled. 

      1: Shut down when any user signs out. 

      2: Shut down when an FSLogix user signs out. 

SIDDirNameMatch 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value:  %sid%_%username% 

Data values and use: 

Specifies a string pattern used when matching a profile or ODFC container folder. Use this 

setting to define how FSLogix attempts to locate a user's profile or ODFC container. 

FSLogix uses the VHDLocations or CCDLocations as the location where to search and this 

setting defines what to search. The path supports the use of the  FSLogix custom variables 

or any environment variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. 

  ） Important 

   Be sure you understand how conflicting settings are applied and prioritized. 

        When using this configuration setting, be sure the SIDDIRNamePattern value 

        matches this setting. 

           This setting has NO EFFECT when  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName is enabled. 

----------------------- Page 405-----------------------

           This setting has NO EFFECT when  NoProfileContainingFolder is enabled. 

           NoProfileContainingFolder > FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName > 

           SIDDirNameMatch (this setting) 

SIDDirNamePattern 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value:  %sid%_%username% 

Data values and use: 

Specifies a string pattern used when creating a profile or ODFC container folder. Use this 

setting to define how FSLogix attempts to create a user's profile or ODFC container folder. 

FSLogix uses the VHDLocations or CCDLocations as the location where to create and this 

setting defines what to create. The path supports the use of the  FSLogix custom variables 

or any environment variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. 

  ） Important 

   Be sure you understand how conflicting settings are applied and prioritized. 

        When using this configuration setting, be sure the SIDDIRNameMatch value 

        matches this setting. 

           This setting has NO EFFECT when  FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName is enabled. 

           This setting has NO EFFECT when  NoProfileContainingFolder is enabled. 

           NoProfileContainingFolder > FlipFlopProfileDirectoryName > 

           SIDDirNamePattern (this setting) 

SIDDirSDDL 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value: N/A 

Data values and use: 

SDDL string representing the ACLs to use when creating the SID container folder. 

SizeInMBs 

----------------------- Page 406-----------------------

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 30000 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the maximum size of the user's container in megabytes. Newly created VHD(x) 

containers are of this size. Existing containers are extended automatically to this size 

during user sign in. You can increase this value at any time, but can't decrease it. 

Decreasing this value doesn't cause existing VHD(x) containers to shrink. 

VHDNameMatch 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value:  Profile* 

Data values and use: 

Specifies a string pattern used when matching a users profile container. Use this setting to 

define how FSLogix attempts to locate a users profile container (VHD(x) file). FSLogix uses 

the VHDLocations or CCDLocations as the location where to search and this setting 

defines what to search. The path supports the use of the FSLogix custom variables or any 

environment variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. 

   ） Important 

   When using this configuration setting, be sure the VHDNamePattern value matches 

   this setting. 

VHDNamePattern 

Type: REG_SZ 

Default Value:  Profile_%username% 

Data values and use: 

Specifies a string pattern used when creating a users profile container. Use this setting to 

define how FSLogix attempts to create a users profile container (VHD(x) file). FSLogix uses 

the VHDLocations or CCDLocations as the location where to search and this setting 

defines what to create. The path supports the use of the FSLogix custom variables or any 

environment variables that are available to the user during the sign in process. 

----------------------- Page 407-----------------------

   ） Important 

   When using this configuration setting, be sure the VHDNameMatch value matches 

   this setting. 

VHDLocations 

(required setting) 

Type: MULTI_SZ or REG_SZ 

Default Value: N/A 

Data values and use: 

A list of SMB locations to search for the user's profile VHD(x) file. If one isn't found, one is 

created in the first listed location. If the VHD path doesn't exist, it creates it before it 

checks if a VHD(x) exists in the path. The path supports the use of the  FSLogix custom 

variables or any environment variables that are available to the user during the sign in 

process. When specified as a REG_SZ value, multiple locations must be separated with a 

semi-colon ( ;). 

VHDXSectorSize 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 0 

Data values and use: 

      0: Uses system default. 

      512: VHD(x) is formatted using 512-byte allocation. 

      4096: VHD(x) is formatted using 4096-byte allocation. 

   ７ Note 

   Values are listed in decimal not hex. 

VolumeType 

Type: REG_SZ 

----------------------- Page 408-----------------------

Default Value: vhd 

Data values and use: 

A value of vhd means that newly created files should be of type VHD. A value of vhdx 

means that newly created files should be of type VHDX. 

VolumeWaitTimeMS 

Type: DWORD 

Default Value: 20000 

Data values and use: 

Specifies the number of milliseconds the system should wait for the volume to arrive after 

the VHD(x) attaches. Default value of 20000 = 20 seconds 

----------------------- Page 409-----------------------

Understand VHD Disk Compaction usage 
and performance 

  ） Important 

  An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

  AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage      . 

You can use Windows Event Log to understand how often VHD Disk Compaction is being used, 

the space saved, and the time taken to run. Here are some sample PowerShell scripts and 

Azure Log Analytics queries you can use to help you interpret the events. 

PowerShell 

VHD Disk Compaction metrics script 

This example uses PowerShell to get the VHD Disk Compaction events from the previous 30 

days, formatted into a grid. From an elevated PowerShell prompt, run the following code block: 

  PowerShell 

  # Set startTime to number of days to search the event logs 
  $startTime = (Get-Date).AddDays(-30) 

  # Query Event Log using Get-WinEvent filtered to the VHD Disk Compaction metric  
  events 
  $diskCompactionEvents = Get-WinEvent -FilterHashtable @{ 
      StartTime       = $startTime 
      ProviderName    = 'Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps' 
      ID         = 57 
  } 

  # Format event properties 
  $compactionMetrics = $diskCompactionEvents | Select-Object ` 
      @{l="Timestamp";e={$_.TimeCreated}},` 

----------------------- Page 410-----------------------

      @{l="ComputerName";e={$_.MachineName}},` 
      @{l="Path";e={$_.Properties[0].Value}},` 
      @{l="WasCompacted";e={$_.Properties[1].Value}},` 
      @{l="TimeSpent(sec)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[7].Value / 1000,2)}},` 
      @{l="MaxSize(GB)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[2].Value / 1024,2)}},` 
      @{l="MinSize(GB)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[3].Value / 1024,2)}},` 
      @{l="InitialSize(GB)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[4].Value / 1024,2)}},` 
      @{l="FinalSize(GB)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[5].Value / 1024,2)}},` 
      @{l="SavedSpace(GB)";e={[math]::round($_.Properties[6].Value / 1024,2)}} 

  # Display metrics in Out-GridView 
  $compactionMetrics | Out-GridView 

Azure Log Analytics Queries 

  ） Important 

   In order to use the below query, you first must configure your virtual machines to send 

  their event logs to a Log Analytics workspace. For more information, see Collect Windows 

  event log data sources with Log Analytics agent. The logs which are used for VHD Disk 

  Compaction are: 

        Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational 

        Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Admin 

VHD Disk Compaction metrics query 

Time spent during VHD Disk Compact operation 

Displays the average, minimum, and maximum time spent during the compact operation. The 

data is summarized based on if the disk was able to be compacted. 

  Kusto 

  Event 
  | where EventLog ==  'Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational' and EventID == 57 
  | parse kind=relaxed EventData with * 
      "<Data Name=\"Path\">" Path 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"WasCompacted\">" DiskCompaction 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MaxSupportedSizeMB\">" MaxSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MinSupportedSizeMB\">" MinSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeBeforeMB\">" SizeBeforeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeAfterMB\">" SizeAfterMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SavedSpaceMB\">" SavedSpaceMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"TimeSpentMillis\">" TimeSpentMillis "</Data>" * 

----------------------- Page 411-----------------------

  | extend TimeSpent = todecimal(TimeSpentMillis) / 1024 
  | where DiskCompaction <> "" 
  | summarize Average=round(avg(TimeSpent),2), Max=round(max(TimeSpent),2),  
  Min=round(min(TimeSpent),2) by DiskCompaction 

Here's an example of the output: 

                                                                

Number of container VHD(x) files compacted 

Displays how many container VHD(x) files were selected for compaction based on the 

threshold values. 

  Kusto 

  Event 
  | where EventLog ==  'Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational' and EventID == 57 
  | parse kind=relaxed EventData with * 
      "<Data Name=\"Path\">" Path 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"WasCompacted\">" DiskCompaction 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MaxSupportedSizeMB\">" MaxSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MinSupportedSizeMB\">" MinSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeBeforeMB\">" SizeBeforeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeAfterMB\">" SizeAfterMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SavedSpaceMB\">" SavedSpaceMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"TimeSpentMillis\">" TimeSpentMillis "</Data>" * 
  | where DiskCompaction <> "" 
  | summarize NumberOfVhdContainers=count() by DiskCompaction 

Here's an example of the output: 

----------------------- Page 412-----------------------

                                                               

Total storage space saved 

Displays the amount of storage in GB reclaimed during the VHD Disk Compaction operation. 

  Kusto 

  Event 
  | where EventLog ==  'Microsoft-FSLogix-Apps/Operational' and EventID == 57 
  | parse kind=relaxed EventData with * 
      "<Data Name=\"Path\">" Path 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"WasCompacted\">" DiskCompaction 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MaxSupportedSizeMB\">" MaxSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"MinSupportedSizeMB\">" MinSupportedSizeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeBeforeMB\">" SizeBeforeMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SizeAfterMB\">" SizeAfterMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"SavedSpaceMB\">" SavedSpaceMB 
      "</Data><Data Name=\"TimeSpentMillis\">" TimeSpentMillis "</Data>" * 
  | extend Storage = todecimal(SavedSpaceMB) 
  | summarize StorageSavings = (format_bytes(sum(Storage * 1024 * 1024),2,"GB")) 

Winlogon (sign out) delay warnings 

Displays any service that caused  Winlogon to exceed the 60-second threshold. Shows the 

number of occurrences along with the average and maximum time spent. 

  Kusto 

  Event 
  | where Source ==  'Microsoft-Windows-Winlogon' and EventID == 6006 
  | parse kind=relaxed ParameterXml with "<Param>" ServiceName "</Param><Param>"  

----------------------- Page 413-----------------------

  Duration "</Param><Param>" EventType "</Param><Param>-</Param>" 
  | extend TimeInSeconds = todecimal(Duration) 
  | where EventType == "Logoff" 
  | summarize Occurrences=count(),Average=round(avg(TimeInSeconds),2),  
  Minimum=round(min(TimeInSeconds),2), Maximum=round(max(TimeInSeconds),2) by  
  ServiceName 

Here's an example of the output: 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 

----------------------- Page 414-----------------------

Services, drivers, and other components 

   ） Important 

   An upcoming change to Windows, included in the April 2026 Windows Server update, the 

   default Kerberos encryption type is changing from RC4 to AES-SHA1. 

   File shares hosting FSLogix containers that aren't upgraded to AES-SHA1 might have 

   access issues after this change is applied. To avoid disruption, complete the upgrade to 

   AES-SHA1 before installing the update. 

   Customers who have already upgraded to AES-SHA1 aren't affected. 

   For more information, see the FSLogix blog: Action required: Windows Kerberos 

   hardening (RC4) may affect FSLogix profiles on SMB storage          . 

FSLogix is composed of various components that enable the variety of solutions. At the core of 

FSLogix are the two (2) Windows Services, and the three (3) minifilter drivers. Additionally, 

FSLogix has command-line utilities, a system tray application, a User Mode DLL, and legacy 

browser plugins. All of these components are part of the core product installation. 

Services 

Windows services are the primary methods from which FSLogix operates. These services are 

responsible for the commands, operations, and interactions with the various dependencies (for 

example, frx.exe and winlogon.exe). 

FSLogix Apps Services (frxsvc.exe) 

Startup type: Automatic 

Log on as: SYSTEM 

      Attaching / detaching Profile or Office containers 

      File system redirects between the user's profile and the appropriate container 

      Processing rule files 

      Processing redirections.xml 

      Reads registry configuration data 

      Interacts with Windows Credential Manager 

      Interacts with SMB storage locations 

----------------------- Page 415-----------------------

FSLogix Cloud Caching Service (frxccds.exe) 

Startup type: Automatic 

Log on as: SYSTEM 

      Dependent on FSLogix Apps Services 

      Interacts with SMB and Azure Storage locations 

      Responsible for Cache and Proxy file locations 

Minifilter Drivers 

Minifilter drivers are file system drivers used to interact with the file system. Windows systems 

run any number of minifilter drivers depending on software or applications installed. These 

minifilter drivers are installed and allocated at specific altitudes to ensure they work within the 

Windows file system and  I/O Manager. 

                                                                                        ﾉ   Expand table 

  Driver       Type                           Description 

 frxdrv.sys    Virtualization Filter Driver   Provides virtualization of the file system and registry 
                                              components 

 frxdrvvt.sys  Redirection Filter Driver      Provides advanced file system redirection 

 frxccd.sys    Virtual Hard Drive Filter      Provides advanced interaction with VHDs used in Cloud 
               Drivers                        Cache 

Other Components 

FSLogix Profile Status (retired) (frx tray.exe) 

   ７ Note 

   frxtray.exe has been retired as of February 11, 2025 and is no longer supported. For more 

   information, see FSLogix feature deprecation. 

This component is accessible from the  %ProgramFiles%\FSLogix\Apps directory and provides 

status on whether FSLogix is active or inactive for the specific signed in user. This tool also 

enables access to the Event Viewer logs and log files using the Advanced View. 

----------------------- Page 416-----------------------

   ２ Warning 

   Don't enable this utility for all users. It should only be used as a tool for troubleshooting 

   issues for specific users. If enabled (in the system tray) for all signed in users, it will have a 

   negative impact on the overall system performance. 

Utilities 

frx command-line utility 

Lets you manage rule sets and many other features of FSLogix. For details on this utility and 

the parameters it supports, review the frx command-line utility article. 

frxcontext command-line utility 

Allows you to manage FSLogix containers and aid in managing containers by adding a context 

menu item to VHD(x) files. For details on this utility and the arguments it supports, review the 

frxcontext command-line utility article. 

User mode DLLs 

User mode DLL is for Microsoft support use only. 

   ２ Warning 

   User mode DLLs should only be used when directed to by a Microsoft support engineer. 

 Last updated on 03/30/2026 
