----------------------- Page 1-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation  
and Setup 

Update 2 
VMware vSphere 8.0 
vCenter Server 8.0 

----------------------- Page 2-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

You can find the most up-to-date technical documentation on the VMware by Broadcom website at: 

https://docs.vmware.com/ 

VMware by Broadcom 
3401 Hillview Ave. 
Palo Alto, CA 94304 
www.vmware.com 

            © 
Copyright     2018-2023 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom Inc.  

and/or its subsidiaries. For more information, go to https://www.broadcom.com. All trademarks, trade  

names, service marks, and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies. Copyright and  

trademark information. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                      2 

----------------------- Page 3-----------------------

         Contents 

         About vCenter Server Installation and Setup              5 

     1   Introduction to vSphere Installation and Setup              6 

            How to Install and Set Up vSphere     6 

            vCenter Server Components and Services       8 

            What is vCenter Server Appliance     11 

            Understanding vSphere Domains and Domain Names           11 

            vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode       12 

                vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode for vCenter Server Appliance        12 

                   Joining a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode Domain        13 

     2   Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance              14 

            System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance       15 

                Hardware Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance       16 

                Storage Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance      16 

                Software Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance       17 

                Required Ports for vCenter Server    17 

                DNS Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance       18 

                vSphere Client Software Requirements      18 

            Preparing for Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance       19 

                System Requirements for the vCenter Server Installer    19 

                Download and Mount the vCenter Server Installer      20 

                Synchronizing Clocks on the vSphere Network      21 

                Synchronizing the Client and Server System Clock      22 

            Prerequisites for Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance     23 

            GUI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance       24 

                Required Information for Deploying a vCenter Server Appliance      25 

                Deploy the vCenter Server Appliance by Using the GUI      28 

                   Stage 1 - Deploy the OVA File as a vCenter Server Appliance      29 

                   Stage 2 - Set up the Newly Deployed vCenter Server Appliance        32 

            CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance      34 

                Prepare Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment      34 

                   JSON Templates for CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance         35 

                   Deployment Configuration Parameters       36 

                Syntax of the CLI Deployment Command        46 

                Deploy a vCenter Server Appliance by Using the CLI     48 

                Deploy Multiple vCenter Server Appliances Using the CLI     49 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                            3 

----------------------- Page 4-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     3   File-Based Backup and Restore of vCenter Server                        51 

             Considerations and Limitations for File-Based Backup and Restore             51 

             Schedule a File-Based Backup        55 

             Manually Back Up vCenter Server by Using the vCenter Server Management Interface                  57 

             Restore vCenter Server from a File-Based Backup           58 

                 Stage 1 - Deploy a New Appliance         60 

                 Stage 2 - Transfer Data to the Newly Deployed Appliance            63 

     4   Image-Based Backup and Restore of a vCenter Server Environment                                 65 

             Considerations and Limitations for Image-Based Backup and Restore               65 

             Restore a vCenter Server Image-based Environment             68 

                 Restore a vCenter Server Instance        70 

                 Restore a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode Environment              70 

      5  After You Deploy the vCenter Server Appliance                       72 

             Log in to Your vCenter Server       72 

             Install the VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in           73 

             Repoint vCenter Server to Another vCenter Server in a Different Domain             74 

                 Repoint a Single vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain without a Replication Partner 
                        75 

                 Repoint a vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain with a Replication Partner              77 

                 Repoint a vCenter Server Node to a New Domain             79 

                 Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command            80 

                 Understanding Tagging and Authorization Conflicts           81 

                 vCenter Server Domain Repoint License Considerations            86 

      6  Troubleshooting vCenter Server Installation or Deployment                          88 

             Collecting Logs for Troubleshooting a vCenter Server Installation or Upgrade            88 

                 Retrieve Installation Logs Manually      88 

                 Collect Deployment Log Files for the vCenter Server Appliance            89 

                 Export a vCenter Server Support Bundle for Troubleshooting             89 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                      4 

----------------------- Page 5-----------------------

About vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

                                                                                                   ®  
vCenter Server Installation and Setup describes how to deploy the VMware vCenter Server 

appliance. 

At VMware, we value inclusion. To foster this principle within our customer, partner, and internal  

community, we create content using inclusive language. 

Intended Audience 

vCenter Server Installation and Setup is for anyone who must install and configure VMware  
         ® 
vSphere    . These topics are for experienced Microsoft Windows or Linux system administrators  

who are familiar with virtual machine technology and data center operations. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                       5 

----------------------- Page 6-----------------------

 Introduction to vSphere  
 Installation and Setup                                                                                1 

vSphere 8.0 provides various options for installation and setup. To ensure a successful vSphere  

deployment, you should understand the installation and setup options, and the sequence of  

tasks. 

The two core components of vSphere are ESXi and vCenter Server. ESXi is the virtualization  

platform on which you can create and run virtual machines and virtual appliances. vCenter Server  

is a service that acts as a central administrator for ESXi hosts connected in a network. vCenter  

Server lets you pool and manage the resources of multiple hosts. 

You deploy the vCenter Server appliance, a preconfigured virtual machine optimized for running  

vCenter Server and the vCenter Server components. You can deploy the vCenter Server  

appliance on ESXi hosts or on vCenter Server instances. 

For detailed information about the ESXi installation process, see VMware ESXi Installation and  
Setup . 

Read the following topics next: 

n   How to Install and Set Up vSphere 

n   vCenter Server Components and Services 

n   What is vCenter Server Appliance 

n   Understanding vSphere Domains and Domain Names 

n   vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode 

How to Install and Set Up vSphere 

vSphere is a sophisticated product with multiple components to install and set up. To ensure a  

successful vSphere deployment, understand the sequence of tasks required. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                         6 

----------------------- Page 7-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Figure 1-1. vSphere Installation and Setup Workflow 

                  Start the vSphere 
                installation and setup 

                      Install ESXi 
                 on at least one host 

                     Set up ESXi 

          Deploy vCenter Server Appliance 

                Log in to the vSphere 
            Client to create and organize 
            your vCenter Server inventory 

                 End of the vSphere 
                installation and setup 

Installing vSphere includes the following tasks: 

1    Read the vSphere release notes. 

2    Install ESXi. 

      Note   See VMware ESXi Installation and Setup for detailed information about the ESXi  

     installation process. 

3    Configure the ESXi boot and network settings, the direct console, and other settings. See  

     VMware ESXi Installation and Setup for information. 

4    Consider setting up a syslog server for remote logging, to ensure sufficient disk storage for  

     log files. Setting up logging on a remote host is especially important for hosts with limited  

     local storage. See VMware ESXi Installation and Setup. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                       7 

----------------------- Page 8-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

5   Install vCenter Server. 

    You can deploy the vCenter Server appliance on an ESXi host or vCenter Server instance. 

    You can deploy or install multiple vCenter Server instances connected in Enhanced Linked  

    Mode configuration by registering them to a common Single Sign-On domain. 

    a    Review the topics in System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance and verify  

         that your system meets the hardware and software requirements for deploying the  

         appliance. 

    b    Determine the deployment method to use. 

         You can use the GUI method to deploy the appliance interactively. Alternatively, you can  

         use the CLI method to perform a silent deployment of the appliance. See GUI Deployment  

         of the vCenter Server Appliance and CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance. 

    c    Use the topic Required Information for Deploying a vCenter Server Appliance to create  

         a worksheet with the information you need for the GUI deployment, or use the topic  

         Prepare Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment to create your JSON templates  

         for the CLI deployment. 

    d    Deploy the appliance. 

6   Connect to vCenter Server from the vSphere Client. See Chapter 5 After You Deploy the  

    vCenter Server Appliance. 

7   Configure the vCenter Server instance. See vCenter Server Configuration and vCenter Server  
    and Host Management. 

vCenter Server Components and Services 

vCenter Server provides a centralized platform for management, operation, resource  

provisioning, and performance evaluation of virtual machines and hosts. 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, vCenter Server, the vCenter Server components,  

and the authentication services are deployed on the same system. 

The following components are included in the vCenter Server appliance deployments: 

n   The authentication services contain vCenter Single Sign-On, License service, Lookup Service,  
    and VMware Certificate Authority. 

n   The vCenter Server group of services contains vCenter Server, vSphere Client, vSphere Auto  

    Deploy, and vSphere ESXi Dump Collector. The vCenter Server appliance also contains the  

    VMware vSphere Lifecycle Manager Extension service and the VMware vCenter Lifecycle  

    Manager. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                             8 

----------------------- Page 9-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

What Happened to the Platform Services Controller 

Beginning in vSphere 7.0, deploying a new vCenter Server or upgrading to vCenter Server 7.0  

requires the use of the vCenter Server appliance, a preconfigured virtual machine optimized  

for running vCenter Server. The new vCenter Server contains all Platform Services Controller  

services, preserving the functionality and workflows, including authentication, certificate  

management, tags, and licensing. It is no longer necessary nor possible to deploy and use an  

external Platform Services Controller. All Platform Services Controller services are consolidated  

into vCenter Server, and deployment and administration are simplified. 

As these services are now part of vCenter Server, they are no longer described as a part of  

Platform Services Controller. In vSphere 7.0, the vSphere Authentication publication replaces the  
Platform Services Controller Administration publication. The new publication contains complete  

information about authentication and certificate management. For information about upgrading  

or migrating from vSphere 6.5 and 6.7 deployments using an existing external Platform  

Services Controller to vSphere 7.0 using vCenter Server appliance, see the vSphere Upgrade  

documentation. 

Authentication Services 

vCenter Single Sign-On 

     The vCenter Single Sign-On authentication service provides secure authentication services  

    to the vSphere software components. By using vCenter Single Sign-On, the vSphere  

     components communicate with each other through a secure token exchange mechanism,  

     instead of requiring each component to authenticate a user separately with a directory  

     service like Active Directory. 

    vCenter Single Sign-On can authenticate users through: 

     n   External identity provider federation 

         You can configure vCenter Server for an external identity provider using federated  

         authentication. In such a configuration, you replace vCenter Server as the identity  

         provider. Currently, vSphere supports Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) as  

         the external identity provider. In this configuration, AD FS interacts with the identity  

         sources on behalf ofvCenter Server. 

     n   vCenter Server built-in identity provider 

         vCenter Server includes a built-in identity provider. By default, vCenter Server uses the  

         vsphere.local domain as the identity source (but you can change it during installation).  

         You can configure the vCenter Server built-in identity provider to use Active Directory  

         (AD) as its identity source using LDAP/S, OpenLDAP/S, and Integrated Windows  

         Authentication (IWA). Such configurations allow customers to log in to vCenter Server  

         using their AD accounts. 

    Authenticated users can then be assigned registered solution-based permissions or roles  

    within a vSphere environment. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                9 

----------------------- Page 10-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

    vCenter Single Sign-On is required with vCenter Server. 

vSphere License Service 

    The vSphere License service provides common license inventory and management  

     capabilities to all vCenter Server systems within the Single Sign-On domain. 

VMware Certificate Authority 

    VMware Certificate Authority (VMCA) provisions each ESXi host with a signed certificate that  

     has VMCA as the root certificate authority, by default. Provisioning occurs when the ESXi  

     host is added to vCenter Server explicitly or as part of the ESXi host installation process. All  

     ESXi certificates are stored locally on the host. 

For information about all authentication services and capabilities, see vSphere Authentication . 

Services Installed with vCenter Server 

These additional components are installed silently when you install vCenter Server. The  

components cannot be installed separately as they do not have their own installers. 

PostgreSQL 

    A bundled version of the VMware distribution of PostgreSQL database for vSphere and  

    vCloud Hybrid Services. 

vSphere Client 

    The HTML5-based user interface that lets you connect to vCenter Server instances by using a  

    Web browser. This vSphere Client replaces the Flex-based vSphere Web Client from vSphere  

     7.0. 

vSphere ESXi Dump Collector 

    The vCenter Server support tool. You can configure ESXi to save the VMkernel memory to  

     a network server, rather than to a disk, when the system encounters a critical failure. The  

    vSphere ESXi Dump Collector collects such memory dumps over the network. 

vSphere Auto Deploy 

    The vCenter Server support tool that can provision hundreds of physical hosts with ESXi  

    software. You can specify the image to deploy and the hosts to provision with the image.  

     Optionally, you can specify host profiles to apply to the hosts, and a vCenter Server location  

     (folder or cluster) for each host. 

VMware vSphere Lifecycle Manager 

    vSphere Lifecycle Manager enables centralized, automated patch and version management  

    for VMware vSphere and offers support for VMware ESXi hosts, virtual machines, and virtual  

     appliances. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               10 

----------------------- Page 11-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

What is vCenter Server Appliance 

The vCenter Server appliance is a preconfigured virtual machine that is optimized for running  

vCenter Server and the associated services. 

The vCenter Server appliance package contains the following software: 

                ® 
n   Photon OS   3.0 

n   The vSphere authentication services 

n   PostgreSQL 

n   VMware vSphere Lifecycle Manager Extension 

n   VMware vCenter Lifecycle Manager 

Version 8.0 of vCenter Server is deployed with virtual hardware version 10, which supports 64  

virtual CPUs per virtual machine in ESXi. 

During the deployment, you can choose the vCenter Server appliance size for your vSphere  

environment size and the storage size for your database requirements. 

vCenter Server uses the VMware vSphere Lifecycle Manager Extension service. An external  

vSphere Lifecycle Manager instance on Windows is no longer required for vSphere centralized  

automated patch and version management. For information about the vCenter Server see  

vCenter Server Components and Services. 

vCenter Server supports high availability. For information about configuring vCenter Server in a  

vCenter High Availability cluster, see vSphere Availability . 

vCenter Server supports file-based backup and restore. For information backing up and  

restoring, see Chapter 3 File-Based Backup and Restore of vCenter Server. 

For information about the vCenter Server maximums, see VMware Configuration Maximums. 

Understanding vSphere Domains and Domain Names 

Each vCenter Server is associated with a vCenter Single Sign-On domain. The domain name  

defaults to vsphere.local, but you can change it during deployment. The domain determines the  

local authentication space. 

vCenter Single Sign-On Domain 

When you deploy a vCenter Server appliance, you are prompted to create a vCenter Single  

Sign-On domain or join an existing domain. 

The domain name is used by the VMware Directory Service (vmdir) for all Lightweight Directory  

Access Protocol (LDAP) internal structuring. 

You can give your domain a unique name. To prevent authentication conflicts, use a name that is  

not used by OpenLDAP, Microsoft Active Directory, and other directory services. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                           11 

----------------------- Page 12-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

After you specify the name of your domain, you can add users and groups. You can add an  

Active Directory or LDAP identity source and allow the users and groups in that identity source  

to authenticate. You can also add vCenter Server instances, or other VMware products, such as  

VMware Aria Operations, to the domain. 

vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode 

vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode allows you to log in to any single instance of vCenter Server and  

view and manage the inventories of all the vCenter Server systems in the group. 

You can join up to 15 vCenter Server appliance deployments with vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode  

in a single vSphere Single Sign-On domain. 

You can create a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode group during the deployment of vCenter  

Server appliance. 

You can also join a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode group by moving, or repointing, a vCenter  

Server from one vSphere domain to another existing domain. See Repoint vCenter Server to  

Another vCenter Server in a Different Domain for information on repointing a vCenter Server  
node. 

vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode for vCenter Server Appliance 

When you enable Enhanced Linked Mode for vCenter Server appliance deployments, you can  

connect multiple vCenter Server appliance deployments together to form a domain. 

Other features include: 

n   A simplified backup and restore process. See Chapter 3 File-Based Backup and Restore of  

    vCenter Server for more information. 

n   A simplified HA process, removing the need for load balancers. 

n    Up to 15 vCenter Server appliance deployments can be linked together using enhanced linked  

     mode and displayed in a single inventory view. 

n    For a vCenter High Availability (vCenter HA) cluster, three nodes are considered one logical  

    vCenter Server node. See "vCenter Architecture Overview" in vSphere Availability for the  

    vCenter HA architecture overview. A single vCenter Server standard license is needed for one  
    vCenter HA cluster. 

Figure 1-2. Enhanced Linked Mode for vCenter Server Appliance Deployments 

        Appliance                    Appliance                    Appliance                    Appliance 

      vCenter Server               vCenter Server               vCenter Server               vCenter Server 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               12 

----------------------- Page 13-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Enhanced Linked Mode with Read Only Replication 

If a vCenter High Availability (vCenter HA) instance is connected with another vCenter Server  

instance with enhanced linked mode and vCenter HA failover occurs to the passive node and is  

unable to communicate with its replication partner on the other vCenter Server node, the replica  

on the vCenter HA node enters read-only mode. 

Joining a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode Domain 

You can join a vCenter Server appliance to another node during deployment of the vCenter  

Server appliance. 

Note   You can also join a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode group by moving, or repointing,  

a vCenter Server from one vSphere domain to another existing domain. See Repoint vCenter  

Server to Another vCenter Server in a Different Domain for information on repointing a vCenter  

Server node. 

For example, you can deploy two vCenter Server appliance systems and join the two nodes  

using vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode. 

If you are deploying the vCenter Server appliance nodes with the UI Installer: 

1   For Appliance 1, deploy the vCenter Server appliance as an instance on ESXi Host 1.  

    Synchronize the time settings with ESXi Host 1. 

2   For Appliance 2, deploy the vCenter Server appliance as an instance on ESXi Host 1 and  

    configure the time settings so that Appliance 2 is synchronized with ESXi Host 1. In stage  

    2 you select to join the vCenter Single Sign-On server of the deployed appliance on  

    Appliance 1. For specific instructions, see Stage 2 - Set up the Newly Deployed vCenter  

    Server Appliance. 

If you are deploying the vCenter Server appliance nodes with the CLI: 

1   Configure the JSON configuration template embedded_vCSA_on_VC.json (or  

    embedded_vCSA_on_ESXi.json) for Appliance 1 as an instance on ESXi Host 1. See Prepare  

    Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment for specific instructions on preparing the  

    JSON configuration file. 

2   Deploy Appliance 1 by running the vcsa-cli-installer command. See Deploy a vCenter  

    Server Appliance by Using the CLI for instructions. 

3   Configure the JSON configuration template embedded_vCSA_replication_on_VC.json (or  

    embedded_vCSA_replication_on_ESXi.json) for Appliance 2 as an instance on ESXi Host  

    1. Enter the hostname of the first embedded node in the replication_partner_hostname field  

    in the sso section. 

4   Deploy Appliance 2 by running the vcsa-cli-installer  

    command using the embedded_vCSA_replication_on_VC.json (or  

    embedded_vCSA_replication_on_ESXi.json) file. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                            13 

----------------------- Page 14-----------------------

Deploying the vCenter Server  
Appliance                                                                                            2 

You can deploy the vCenter Server appliance to manage your vSphere environment. 

You can deploy the vCenter Server appliance on an ESXi host 6.7 or later, or on an ESXi host or  

DRS cluster from the inventory of a vCenter Server instance 6.7 or later. 

For information about the software included in the vCenter Server appliance 8.0, see What is  

vCenter Server Appliance. 

For information about the software and hardware requirements for deploying the vCenter Server  
appliance, see System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance. 

The vCenter Server installer contains executable files both for GUI and CLI deployments. 

n   The GUI deployment is a two stage process. The first stage is a deployment wizard that  

    deploys the OVA file of the appliance on the target ESXi host or vCenter Server instance.  

    After the OVA deployment finishes, you are redirected to the second stage of the process  

    that sets up and starts the services of the newly deployed appliance. 

n   The CLI deployment method involves running a CLI command against a JSON file that you  

    previously prepared. The CLI installer parses the configuration parameters and their values  

    from the JSON file and generates an OVF Tool command that automatically deploys and sets  

    up the appliance. The CLI deployment automatically runs both stage 1 then stage 2, with no  

    user interaction required. 

The vCenter Server appliance has the following default user names: 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                         14 

----------------------- Page 15-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

User Name                              Description 

root                                   Use this user name to log in to the appliance operating system and the vCenter  

                                       Server Management Interface. 

                                       You set the password while deploying the virtual appliance. 

administrator@your_domain_name         Use this user name for vCenter Single Sign-On login. 

                                       You set the password while creating the vCenter Single Sign-On domain. You  

                                       create a vCenter Single Sign-On domain during the deployment of a vCenter Server  

                                       appliance in a new vCenter Single Sign-On domain. 

                                       After you create a vCenter Single Sign-On domain, only the  

                                       administrator@your_domain_name user has the privileges required to log in to  

                                       vCenter Single Sign-On and vCenter Server. 

                                       The administrator@your_domain_name user can proceed as follows: 

                                       n   Add an identity source in which additional users and groups are defined to  

                                           vCenter Single Sign-On. 

                                       n   Give permissions to the users and groups. 

                                       For information about adding identity sources and giving permissions to the users  

                                       and groups, see vSphere Authentication . 

For information about upgrading and patching the vCenter Server appliance, see vSphere  
Upgrade. 

For information about configuring vCenter Server, see vCenter Server Configuration . 

If you want to set up vCenter Server to use an IPv6 address version, use the fully qualified  

domain name (FQDN) or host name of the appliance. To set up an IPv4 address, the best practice  

is to use the FQDN or host name of the appliance, because the IP address can change if assigned  

by DHCP. 

Read the following topics next: 

n    System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

n    Preparing for Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

n    Prerequisites for Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance 

n    GUI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

n    CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

You can deploy the vCenter Server appliance on an ESXi host 6.7 or later, or on a vCenter Server  

instance 6.7 or later. Your system must also meet specific software and hardware requirements. 

When you use Fully Qualified Domain Names, verify that the client machine from which you are  

deploying the appliance and the network on which you are deploying the appliance use the same  

DNS server. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                         15 

----------------------- Page 16-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Before you deploy the appliance, synchronize the clocks of the target server and all vCenter  

Server instances on the vSphere network. Unsynchronized clocks might result in authentication  

problems and can cause the installation to fail or prevent the appliance services from starting.  

See Synchronizing Clocks on the vSphere Network. 

Hardware Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, you can select to deploy an appliance that is  

suitable for the size of your vSphere environment. The option that you select determines the  

number of CPUs and the amount of memory for the appliance. 

The hardware requirements for a vCenter Server appliance depend on the size of your vSphere  

inventory. 

                                           Number of vCPUs                          Memory 

 Tiny environment (up to 10 hosts or       2                                        14 GB 

 100 virtual machines) 

 Small environment (up to 100 hosts or     4                                        21 GB 

 1,000 virtual machines) 

 Medium environment (up to 400             8                                        30 GB 

 hosts or 4,000 virtual machine) 

 Large environment (up to 1,000 hosts      16                                       39 GB 

 or 10,000 virtual machines) 

 X-Large environment (up to 2,000          24                                       58 GB 

 hosts or 35,000 virtual machines) 

Note   If you want to add an ESXi host with more than 512 LUNs and 2,048 paths to the vCenter  

Server inventory, you must deploy a vCenter Server appliance for a large or x-large environment. 

Storage Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, the ESXi host or DRS cluster on which you  

deploy the appliance must meet minimum storage requirements. The required storage depends  

not only on the size of the vSphere environment and the storage size, but also on the disk  

provisioning mode. 

The storage requirements are different for each vSphere environment size and depend on your  

database size requirements. 

                                Default Storage Size           Large Storage Size             X-Large Storage Size 

 Tiny environment (up to        579 GB                         2019 GB                        4279 GB 

 10 hosts or 100 virtual  

 machines) 

 Small environment (up to       694 GB                         2044 GB                        4304 GB 

 100 hosts or 1,000 virtual  

 machines) 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                        16 

----------------------- Page 17-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

                                Default Storage Size          Large Storage Size            X-Large Storage Size 

 Medium environment (up to      908 GB                        2208 GB                       4468 GB 

 400 hosts or 4,000 virtual  

 machine) 

 Large environment (up to       1358 GB                       2258 GB                       4518 GB 

 1,000 hosts or 10,000  

 virtual machines) 

 X-Large environment (up        2283 GB                       2383 GB                       4643 GB 

 to 2,000 hosts or 35,000  

 virtual machines) 

Note   The storage requirements include the requirements for the vSphere Lifecycle Manager  

that runs as a service in the vCenter Server appliance. 

Software Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

The VMware vCenter Server appliance can be deployed on ESXi 6.7 hosts or later, or on vCenter  

Server instances 6.7 or later. 

You can deploy the vCenter Server appliance using the GUI or CLI installer. You run the installer  

from a network client machine that you use to connect to the target server and deploy the  

appliance on the server. You can connect directly to an ESXi 6.7 host on which to deploy the  

appliance. You can also connect to a vCenter Server 6.7 instance to deploy the appliance on an  

ESXi host or DRS cluster that resides in the vCenter Server inventory. 

For information about the requirements for network client machine, see System Requirements for  

the vCenter Server Installer. 

Required Ports for vCenter Server 

The vCenter Server system must be able to send data to every managed host and receive  

data from the vSphere Client. To enable migration and provisioning activities between managed  

hosts, the source and destination hosts must be able to receive data from each other through  

predetermined TCP and UDP ports. 

vCenter Server is accessed through predetermined TCP and UDP ports. If you manage network  

components from outside a firewall, you might be required to reconfigure the firewall to allow  

access on the appropriate ports. For the list of all supported ports and protocols in vSphere, see  
the VMware Ports and Protocols Tool™ at https://ports.vmware.com. 

During installation, if a port is in use or is blocked using a denylist, the vCenter Server installer  

displays an error message. You must use another port number to proceed with the installation.  

There are internal ports that are used only for inter-process communication. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                      17 

----------------------- Page 18-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

VMware uses designated ports for communication. Additionally, the managed hosts monitor  

designated ports for data from vCenter Server. If a built-in firewall exists between any of  

these elements, the installer opens the ports during the installation or upgrade process. For  

custom firewalls, you must manually open the required ports. If you have a firewall between two  

managed hosts and you want to perform source or target activities, such as migration or cloning,  

you must configure a means for the managed hosts to receive data. 

To configure the vCenter Server system to use a different port to receive vSphere Client data,  

see the vCenter Server and Host Management documentation. 

DNS Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, similar to any network server, you can assign  

a fixed IP address and an FQDN that is resolvable by a DNS server so that clients can reliably  

access the service. 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance with a static IP address, you ensure that in case  

of system restart, the IP address of the appliance remains the same. 

Before you deploy the vCenter Server appliance with a static IP address, you must verify that this  

IP address has a valid internal domain name system (DNS) registration. 

When you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, the installation of the web server component  

that supports the vSphere Client fails if the installer cannot look up the fully qualified domain  

name (FQDN) for the appliance from its IP address. Reverse lookup is implemented using PTR  

records. 

If you plan to use an FQDN for the appliance system name, you must verify that the FQDN is  

resolvable by a DNS server, by adding forward and reverse DNS A records. 

You can use the nslookup command to verify that the DNS reverse lookup service returns an  

FQDN when queried with the IP address and to verify that the FQDN is resolvable. 

  nslookup -nosearch -nodefname FQDN_or_IP_address 

If you use DHCP instead of a static IP address for the vCenter Server appliance, verify that the  

appliance name is updated in the domain name service (DNS). If you can ping the appliance  

name, the name is updated in DNS. 

Ensure that the ESXi host management interface has a valid DNS resolution from the vCenter  

Server and all vSphere Client instances. Ensure that the vCenter Server has a valid DNS resolution  

from all ESXi hosts and vSphere Client. 

vSphere Client Software Requirements 

Use of the vSphere Client requires a supported web browser. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               18 

----------------------- Page 19-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

VMware has tested and supports the following guest operating systems and browser versions  

for the vSphere Client. 

Supported Guest Operating Systems 

    n    Windows 32-bit and 64-bit 

    n    Mac OS 

Supported Browser Versions 

    n    Google Chrome 89 or later 

    n    Mozilla Firefox 80 or later 

    n    Microsoft Edge 90 or later 

    Note   Later versions of these browsers are likely to work, but have not been tested. 

Preparing for Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

Before you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, you must download the vCenter Server installer  

ISO file and mount it to a network virtual machine or physical server from which you want to  

perform the deployment. 

The machine from which you deploy the appliance must run on a Windows, Linux, or Mac  

operating system that meets the operating system requirements. See System Requirements for  

the vCenter Server Installer. 

System Requirements for the vCenter Server Installer 

You can run the vCenter Server GUI or CLI installer from a network client machine that is running  

on a Windows, Linux, or Mac operating system of a supported version. 

To ensure optimal performance of the GUI and CLI installers, use a client machine that meets the  

minimum hardware requirements. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                           19 

----------------------- Page 20-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-1. System Requirements for the GUI and CLI Installers 

 Operating System      Supported Versions          Minimum Hardware Configuration for Optimal Performance 

 Windows               n   Windows 10, 11          4 GB RAM, 2 CPU having 4 cores with 2.3 GHz, 32 GB hard disk, 1 NIC 

                       n   Windows 2016 x64  

                           bit 

                       n   Windows 2019 x64  

                           bit 

                       n   Windows 2022 x64  

                           bit 

 Linux                 n   SUSE 15                 4 GB RAM, 1 CPU having 2 cores with 2.3 GHz, 16 GB hard disk, 1 NIC 

                       n   Ubuntu 18.04,  
                                                   Note   The CLI installer requires 64-bit OS. 
                           20.04, 21.10 

  Mac                  n   macOS 10.15, 11, 12     8 GB RAM, 1 CPU having 4 cores with 2.4 GHz, 150 GB hard disk, 1 NIC 

                       n   macOS Catalina, Big  

                           Sur, Monterey 

Note   For client machines that run on Mac 10.15 or later, concurrent GUI deployments of multiple  

appliances are unsupported. You must deploy the appliances in a sequence. 

Note   Visual C++ redistributable libraries need to be installed to run the CLI installer on versions  

of Windows older than Windows 10. The Microsoft installers for these libraries are located in the  

vcsa-cli-installer/win32/vcredist directory. 

Note   Deploying the vCenter Server appliance with the GUI requires a minimum resolution of  

1024x768 to properly display. Lower resolutions can truncate the UI elements. 

Download and Mount the vCenter Server Installer 

VMware releases the vCenter Server appliance ISO image, which contains GUI and CLI installers  

for the vCenter Server appliance. 

With the GUI and CLI executable files that are included in the vCenter Server installer, you can: 

n    Deploy the vCenter Server appliance. 

n    Upgrade the vCenter Server appliance. 

n    Converge older versions of vCenter Server with an external Platform Services Controller to  

     the current version of vCenter Server. 

n    Restore a vCenter Server appliance from a file-based backup. 

Prerequisites 

n    Create a Customer Connect account at https://my.vmware.com/web/vmware/. 

n    Verify that your client machine meets the system requirements for the vCenter Server  

     installer. See System Requirements for the vCenter Server Installer. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                           20 

----------------------- Page 21-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Procedure 

1   Log in to VMware Customer Connect. 

2    Navigate to Products and Accounts > All Products. 

3    Find VMware vSphere and click View Download Components. 

4   Select a VMware vSphere version from the Select Version drop-down. 

5   Select a version of VMware vCenter Server and click GO TO DOWNLOADS. 

6    Download the vCenter Server appliance ISO image. 

7   Confirm that the md5sum is correct by using an MD5 checksum tool. 

8    Mount the ISO image to the client machine from which you want to deploy, upgrade, migrate,  

    or restore the appliance. 

     Note   ISO mounting software that does not allow more than eight directory levels, for  

    example, MagicISO Maker on Windows, is unsupported. 

     For Linux OS and Mac OS, Archive Manager is unsupported. 

     For Mac OS, you can use DiskImageMounter. 

     For Ubuntu 14.04, you can use Disk Image Mounter. 

     For SUSE 12 OS, you can use the terminal. 

      $ sudo mkdir mount_dir 

      $ sudo mount -o loop VMware-vCSA-all-version_number-build_number.iso mount_dir 

     Important   Due to a security change in MacOS Catalina, you must modify the security  

    settings on your computer until the vCenter Server deployment completes. If you attempt to  

     run the installer under MacOS Catalina without modifying the security settings, the vCenter  

    Server installer reports the error:ovftool cannot be opened because the developer cannot  

    be verified. For more information, see KB 79416. 

What to do next 

Open the readme.txt file and review the information about the other files and directories in the  

vCenter Server appliance ISO image. 

Synchronizing Clocks on the vSphere Network 

Verify that all components on the vSphere network have their clocks synchronized. If the clocks  

on the physical machines in your vSphere network are not synchronized, SSL certificates and  

SAML tokens, which are time-sensitive, might not be recognized as valid in communications  

between network machines. 

Unsynchronized clocks can result in authentication problems, which can cause the installation to  

fail or prevent the vCenter Server vmware-vpxd service from starting. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                              21 

----------------------- Page 22-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Time inconsistencies in vSphere can cause the first boot of a component in your environment to  

fail at different services depending on where in the environment time is not accurate and when  

the time is synchronized. Problems most commonly occur when the target ESXi host for the  

destination vCenter Server is not synchronized with NTP or PTP. Similarly, issues can arise if the  

destination vCenter Server migrates to an ESXi host set to a different time due to fully automated  

DRS. 

To avoid time synchronization issues, ensure that the following is correct before installing,  

migrating, or upgrading a vCenter Server instance. 

n    The target ESXi host where the destination vCenter Server is to be deployed is synchronized  

     to NTP or PTP. 

n    The ESXi host running the source vCenter Server is synchronized to NTP or PTP. 

n    When upgrading or migrating from vSphere 6.7 to vSphere 8.0, if the vCenter Server  

     appliance is connected to an external Platform Services Controller, ensure the ESXi host  

     running the external Platform Services Controller is synchronized to NTP or PTP. 

n    If you are upgrading or migrating from vSphere 6.7 to vSphere 8.0, verify that the source  
     vCenter Server or vCenter Server appliance and external Platform Services Controller have  

     the correct time. 

Verify that any Windows host machine on which vCenter Server runs is synchronized with  

the Network Time Server (NTP) server. See the VMware knowledge base article at https:// 

kb.vmware.com/s/article/1318. 

To synchronize ESXi clocks with an NTP or a PTP server, you can use the VMware Host Client.  

For information about editing the time configuration of an ESXi host, see topic Edit the Time  
Configuration of an ESXi Host in the VMware Host Client in the vSphere Single Host Management  
- VMware Host Client documentation. 

To learn how to change time synchronization settings for vCenter Server, see topic Configure  
the System Time Zone and Time Synchronization Settings in the vCenter Server Configuration  

documentation. 

To learn how to edit the time configuration for a host by using the vSphere Client, see topic  

Editing the Time Configuration Settings of a Host in the vCenter Server and Host Management  

documentation. 

Synchronizing the Client and Server System Clock 

To establish a secure TLS connection to a vCenter Server (the server), the system where you  

are running the CLI installer (the client) must not have its system clock slower or faster than the  

server's system clock by an acceptable limit (tolerance). 

See Table 2-2. Client Clock Tolerance for specific values for each deployment scenario. 

Note   The client clock values are applicable only for vCenter Server 6.7 and later. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               22 

----------------------- Page 23-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-2. Client Clock Tolerance 

 Deployment Scenario                    Clock Tolerance                        Connection Notes 

 Linking one vCenter Server with        When deploying the second vCenter  

 another vCenter Server                 Server, the clock tolerance for the  

                                        client and the first vCenter Server  

                                        must not exceed 10 minutes. 

 Installing a vCenter Server appliance  The maximum clock tolerance  

 using a container vCenter Server with  between the client and the container  

 a *._on_vc.json template.              vCenter Server is 8 hours 20 minutes. 

Prerequisites for Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance 

To ensure a successful deployment of the vCenter Server appliance, you must perform some  

required tasks and pre-checks before running the installer. 

General Prerequisites 

n    Download and Mount the vCenter Server Installer. 

Target System Prerequisites 

n    Verify that your system meets the minimum software and hardware requirements. See  

     System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance. 

n    If you want to deploy the appliance on an ESXi host, verify that the ESXi host is not in  

     lockdown or maintenance mode and not part of a fully automated DRS cluster. 

n    If you want to deploy the appliance on a DRS cluster of the inventory of a vCenter Server  

     instance, verify that the cluster contains at least one ESXi host that is not in lockdown or  

     maintenance mode. 

n    If you plan to use NTP servers for time synchronization, verify that the NTP servers are  

     running and that the time between the NTP servers and the target server on which you want  

     to deploy the appliance is synchronized. 

n    If you want to deploy the appliance on a vSAN ESA cluster with vSAN ESA encryption,  

     you must enable vSAN ESA encryption before installing vCenter Server. vSAN Express  

     Storage Architecture is a next-generation architecture designed to get the most out of  

     high-performance storage devices, resulting in greater performance and efficiency. You can  

     enable vSAN ESA encryption through vSAN SDK or vSAN API. 

vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode Prerequisites 

When deploying a new vCenter Server as part of an Enhanced Linked Mode deployment, create  

an image-based backup of the existing vCenter Server nodes in your environment. You can use  

the backup as a precaution in case there is a failure during the deployment process. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                 23 

----------------------- Page 24-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

If the deployment fails, delete the newly deployed vCenter Server appliance, and restore the  

vCenter Server nodes from their respective image-based backups. You must restore all the  

nodes in the environment from their image-based backups. Failing to do so can cause the  

replication partners to be out of synchronization with the restored node. 

n   To learn more about creating vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode deployments, see vCenter  

    Enhanced Linked Mode. 

n   To learn about image-based backs, see Chapter 4 Image-Based Backup and Restore of a  

    vCenter Server Environment. 

Network Prerequisites 

If you plan to assign a static IP address and an FQDN as a system name in the network settings  

of the appliance, verify that you have configured the forward and reverse DNS records for the IP  

address. 

GUI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

You can use the GUI installer to perform an interactive deployment of a vCenter Server appliance. 

When you perform the GUI deployment, you download the vCenter Server installer on a network  

client machine, run the deployment wizard from the client machine, and provide the inputs that  

are required for the appliance deployment and setup. 

The GUI deployment process includes a series of two stages. 

Figure 2-1. Stage 1 - OVA Deployment 

The first stage walks you through the deployment wizard to choose the deployment type and  

appliance settings. This stage completes the deployment of the OVA file on the target server  

with the deployment type and appliance settings that you provide. 

As an alternative to performing the first stage of the deployment with the GUI installer, you  

can deploy the OVA file of the vCenter Server appliance by using the vSphere Client. After the  

OVA deployment, you must log in to the vCenter Server Management Interface of the newly  

deployed appliance to proceed with the second stage of the deployment process. See "Deploy  

an OVF or OVA Template" in vSphere Virtual Machine Administration vSphere Virtual Machine  

Administration for information about deploying an OVA file using the vSphere Client. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                            24 

----------------------- Page 25-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Figure 2-2. Stage 2 - Appliance Setup 

The second stage walks you through the setup wizard to configure the appliance time  

synchronization and vCenter Single Sign-On. This stage completes the initial setup and starts  

the services of the newly deployed appliance. 

As an alternative to performing the second stage of the deployment with the GUI installer, you  

can log in to the vCenter Server Management Interface of the newly deployed appliance, https:// 

FQDN_or_IP_address:5480. 

Required Information for Deploying a vCenter Server Appliance 

When you use the GUI method to deploy a vCenter Server appliance, the wizard prompts you for  

deployment and setup information. It is a best practice to keep a record of the values that you  

enter in case you must reinstall the product. 

You can use this worksheet to record the information that you need for deploying a vCenter  

Server appliance. 

Table 2-3. Required Information During Stage 1 of the GUI Deployment Process 

  Required Information                                     Default                           Your Entry 

  FQDN or IP address of the target server on which        - 

 you want to deploy the appliance. 

 The target server can be either an ESXi host or a  

 vCenter Server instance. 

  HTTPS port of the target server                         443 

  User name with administrative privileges on the         - 

 target server 

  n   If your target server is an ESXi host, use root. 

  n   If your target server is a  

     vCenter Server instance, use  

     user_name@your_domain_name , for  

      example, administrator@vsphere.local. 

  Password of the user with administrative                - 

  privileges on the target server 

  Data center from the vCenter Server inventory on        - 

 which you want to deploy the appliance . 

 Target server must be a vCenter Server instance. 

 Optionally you can provide a data center folder. 

  ESXi host or DRS cluster from the data center           - 

 inventory on which you want to deploy the  

 appliance 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                               25 

----------------------- Page 26-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-3. Required Information During Stage 1 of the GUI Deployment Process (continued) 

  Required Information                                        Default                             Your Entry 

  VM name for the appliance                                   vCenter Server 

  n   Must not contain a percent sign (%), backslash  

      (\), or forward slash (/) 

  n   Must be no more than 80 characters in length 

  Password for the root user of the appliance                 - 

  operating system 

  n   Must contain only lower ASCII characters  

      without spaces. 

  n   Must be at least 8 characters, but no more  

      than 20 characters in length 

  n   Must contain at least one uppercase letter 

  n   Must contain at least one lowercase letter 

  n   Must contain at least one number 

  n   Must contain at least one special character,  

      for example, a dollar sign ($), hash key (#), at  

      sign (@), period (.), or exclamation mark (!) 

  Deployment size of the vCenter Server appliance             Tiny 

  for your vSphere environment. See Hardware  

  Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance  

  for information about the deployment sizes you  

  can select. The option that you select determines  

  the number of CPUs and the amount of memory  

  for the appliance. 

  Storage size of the vCenter Server appliance for            Default 

 your vSphere environment. The required storage  

  depends not only on the size of the vSphere  

  environment, but also on the disk provisioning  

  mode. See Storage Requirements for the vCenter  

  Server Appliance. 

  Increase the default storage size if you want  

  larger volume for SEAT data (stats, events,  

  alarms, and tasks). 

  Name of the datastore on which you want to                  - 

  store the configuration files and virtual disks of  

  the appliance 

  Note   The installer displays a list of datastores  

  that are accessible from your target server. 

  Activate or deactivate Thin Disk Mode                       Deactivated 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                      26 

----------------------- Page 27-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-3. Required Information During Stage 1 of the GUI Deployment Process (continued) 

  Required Information                                        Default                             Your Entry 

  Name of the network to which to connect the                 - 

  appliance 

  Note   The installer displays a drop-down menu  

  with networks that depend on the network  

  settings of your target server. If you are  

  deploying the appliance directly on an ESXi host,  

  non-ephemeral distributed virtual port groups are  

  not supported and are not displayed in the drop- 

  down menu. 

  The network must be accessible from the  

  client machine from which you perform the  

  deployment. 

  IP version for the appliance address                        IPv4 

  Can be either IPv4 or IPv6. 

  IP assignment for the appliance address                     static 

  Can be either static or DHCP. 

  FQDN                                                        - 

  For a static IP assignment 

 vCenter Server uses FQDN or IP address as the  

  system name. 

  IP address                                                  - 

  For IPv4 networks, you can use either a subnet              - 

  mask or a network prefix. Subnet mask uses a dot  

  decimal notation (for example, 255.255.255.0). An  

  IPv4 network prefix is an integer between 0 and  

  32. 

  For IPv6 networks, you must use a network  

  prefix. An IPv6 network prefix is an integer  

  between 0 and 128 . 

  Default gateway                                             - 

  DNS servers separated by commas                             - 

  System name (FQDN)                                          - 

  Only if you use DHCP with IPv4 and have a  

  Dynamic DNS (DDNS) server available in your  

  environment. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                       27 

----------------------- Page 28-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-4. Required Information During Stage 2 of the GUI Deployment Process 

  Required Information                                       Default                             Your Entry 

  Time synchronization settings                              Synchronize time with NTP  

 You can synchronize the time of the appliance               servers 

  either with the time of the ESXi host or with one  

  or more NTP servers. 

  If you want to use more than one NTP servers,  

 you must provide the IP addresses or FQDNs of  

 the NTP servers as a comma-separated list. 

 Activate or deactivate SSH access                           Deactivate 

  Note   vCenter Server High Availability requires  

  remote SSH access to the appliance. 

  Name for the new vCenter Single Sign-On domain             - 

  For example, vsphere.local. 

  Password for the administrator account,                    - 

  administrator@your_domain_name  

  n   Must be at least 8 characters, but no more  

      than 20 characters in length 

  n   Must contain at least one uppercase letter 

  n   Must contain at least one lowercase letter 

  n   Must contain at least one number 

  n   Must contain at least one special character,  

      such as ampersand (&), hash key (#), and  

      percent sign (%) 

  Password of the vCenter Single Sign On                     - 

  administrator user for the domain 

 Join or do not participate in the VMware                    Join the CEIP 

  Customer Experience Improvement Program  

  (CEIP) 

  For information about the CEIP, see the  

  Configuring Customer Experience Improvement  

  Program section in vCenter Server and Host  
  Management. 

Deploy the vCenter Server Appliance by Using the GUI 

You can use the GUI installer to perform an interactive deployment of a vCenter Server appliance.  

You must run the GUI deployment from a Windows, Linux, or Mac machine that is in the network  

on which you want to deploy the appliance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                     28 

----------------------- Page 29-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Figure 2-3. Deployment Workflow of a vCenter Server Appliance 

               Start the deployment 

         Stage 1 - Deploy the OVA file as  
            a vCenter Server Appliance 

       Stage 2 - Set up the newly deployed  
            vCenter Server Appliance 

              End of the deployment 

Prerequisites 

n    See Prerequisites for Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance. 

n    See Required Information for Deploying a vCenter Server Appliance. 

Procedure 

1    Stage 1 - Deploy the OVA File as a vCenter Server Appliance 

     With stage 1 of the deployment process, you deploy the OVA file, which is included in the  

     vCenter Server installer, as a vCenter Server appliance. 

2    Stage 2 - Set up the Newly Deployed vCenter Server Appliance 

     When the OVA deployment finishes, you are redirected to stage 2 of the deployment  

     process to set up and start the services of the newly deployed vCenter Server appliance. 

Stage 1 - Deploy the OVA File as a vCenter Server Appliance 

With stage 1 of the deployment process, you deploy the OVA file, which is included in the  

vCenter Server installer, as a vCenter Server appliance. 

Procedure 

1    In the vCenter Server installer, navigate to the vcsa-ui-installer directory, go to the  

     subdirectory for your operating system, and run the installer executable file. 

     n    For Windows OS, go to the win32 subdirectory, and run the installer.exe file. 

     n    For Linux OS, go to the lin64 subdirectory, and run the installer file. 

     n    For Mac OS, go to the mac subdirectory, and run the  Installer.app file. 

2    On the Home page, click Install to start the deployment wizard. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                       29 

----------------------- Page 30-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

3    Review the Introduction page to understand the deployment process and click Next. 

4    Read and accept the license agreement, and click Next. 

5    Connect to the target server on which you want to deploy the vCenter Server appliance. 

     Option                      Steps 

     You can connect to an       1   Enter the FQDN or IP address of the ESXi host. 

     ESXi host on which to       2   Enter the HTTPS port of the ESXi host. 

     deploy the appliance. 
                                 3   Enter the user name and password of a user with administrative privileges on the ESXi  

                                     host, for example, the root user. 

                                 4   Click Next. 

                                 5   Verify that the certificate warning displays the SHA1 thumbprint of the SSL certificate  

                                     that is installed on the target ESXi host, and click Yes to accept the certificate  

                                     thumbprint. 

     You can connect to          1   Enter the FQDN or IP address of the vCenter Server instance. 

     a vCenter Server            2   Enter the HTTPS port of the vCenter Server instance. 

     instance and browse  
                                 3   Enter the user name and password of user with vCenter Single Sign-On  
     the inventory to select  
                                     administrative privileges on the vCenter Server instance, for example, the  
     an ESXi host or DRS  
                                     administrator@your_domain_name user. 
     cluster on which to  
                                 4   Click Next. 
     deploy the appliance. 
                                 5   Verify that the certificate warning displays the SHA1 thumbprint of the SSL certificate  

                                     that is installed on the target vCenter Server instance, and click Yes to accept the  

                                     certificate thumbprint. 

                                 6   Select the data center or data center folder that contains the ESXi host or DRS cluster  

                                     on which you want to deploy the appliance, and click Next 

                                     Note   You must select a data center or data center folder that contains at least one  

                                     ESXi host that is not in lockdown or maintenance mode. 

                                 7   Select the ESXi host or DRS cluster on which you want to deploy the appliance, and  

                                     click Next. 

6    On the Set up appliance VM page, enter a name for the vCenter Server appliance, set the  

     password for the root user, and click Next. 

     The appliance name must not contain a percent sign (%), backslash (\), or forward slash (/)  

     and must be no more than 80 characters in length. 

     The password must contain only lower ASCII characters without spaces, at least eight  

     characters, a number, uppercase and lowercase letters, and a special character, for example,  
     an exclamation mark (!), hash key (#), at sign (@), or brackets (()). 

7    Select the deployment size for the vCenter Server appliance for your vSphere inventory. 

     See Hardware Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance for information about the  

     deployment sizes you can select. The option that you select determines the number of CPUs  

     and the amount of memory for the appliance. 

8    Select the storage size for the vCenter Server appliance, and click Next. 

     The required storage depends not only on the size of the vSphere environment, but also on  

     the disk provisioning mode. See Storage Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                 30 

----------------------- Page 31-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

9    Select the storage location for the vCenter Server appliance where all the virtual machine  

     configuration files and virtual disks will be stored. 

     Option                                           Action 

     Install on an existing datastore accessible      Select a datastore from the list of compatible datastores. 

     from the target host 

     Install on a new vSAN cluster containing         Specify the required details to create a new vSAN cluster or a vSAN  

     the target host                                  Express Storage Architecture (vSAN ESA) cluster to store the vCenter  

                                                      Server appliance. 

     Install on an existing vSAN datastore and        Specify the required details to create a cluster on the vSAN datastore.  

     claim additional disks                           This option is displayed only if your environment contains a vSAN  

                                                      datastore. 

     To enable thin provisioning, select Enable Thin Disk Mode. NFS datastores are thin  

     provisioned by default. 

10   (Optional) If you selected vSAN as your storage location, you must claim disks for storage. 

     n    For vSAN, claim disks separately for cache tier and capacity tier. 

     n    For vSAN ESA, claim disks from the list of compatible disks. 

11   On the Configure network settings page, set up the network settings. 

     The IP address or the FQDN of the appliance is used as a system name. It is recommended to  

     use an FQDN. However, if you want to use an IP address, use static IP address allocation for  

     the appliance, because IP addresses allocated by DHCP might change. 

     Option                                      Action 

     Network                                     Select the network to which to connect the appliance. 

                                                 The networks displayed in the drop-down menu depend on the network  

                                                 settings of the target server. If you are deploying the appliance directly  

                                                 on an ESXi host, non-ephemeral distributed virtual port groups are not  

                                                 supported and are not displayed in the drop-down menu. 

     IP version                                  Select the version for the appliance IP address. 

                                                 You can select either IPv4 or IPv6. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                  31 

----------------------- Page 32-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     Option                                      Action 

     IP assignment                               Select how to allocate the IP address of the appliance. 

                                                 n   static 

                                                     The wizard prompts you to enter the IP address and network settings. 

                                                 n   DHCP 

                                                     A DHCP server is used to allocate the IP address. Select this option only  

                                                     if a DHCP server is available in your environment. 

                                                     If there is an enabled DDNS in your environment, you can enter a  

                                                     preferred fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for the appliance. 

     Common Ports                                You can customize the HTTP and HTTPS ports (optional). 

                                                 If specifying a custom HTTP and HTTPS port number, ensure that you do  

                                                 not use a port number already in use by vCenter Server, or the default HTTP  

                                                 and HTTPS ports of 80 and 443. 

                                                 Note   

                                                 a   You can only customize the HTTP and HTTPS ports during installation.  

                                                     You cannot customize any other port. 

                                                 b   You cannot change any port after installation. 

                                                 c   Upgrade or migration procedures persist all port configuration. Port  

                                                     customizations that were previously supported in Windows OS  

                                                     deployments are persisted in a Windows to Linux migration. 

       

12   On the Ready to complete stage 1 page, review the deployment settings for the vCenter  

     Server appliance and click Finish to start the OVA deployment process. 

13   Wait for the OVA deployment to finish, and click Continue to proceed with stage 2 of the  

     deployment process to set up and start the services of the newly deployed appliance. 

     Note   If you exit the wizard by clicking Close, you must log in to the vCenter Server  

     Management Interface to set up and start the services. 

Results 

The newly deployed vCenter Server appliance is running on the target server but the services are  

not started. 

Stage 2 - Set up the Newly Deployed vCenter Server Appliance 

When the OVA deployment finishes, you are redirected to stage 2 of the deployment process to  

set up and start the services of the newly deployed vCenter Server appliance. 

Procedure 

1    Review the introduction to stage 2 of the deployment process and click Next. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                32 

----------------------- Page 33-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

2    Configure the time settings in the appliance, optionally enable remote SSH access to the  

     appliance, and click Next. 

     Option                                       Description 

     Synchronize time with the ESXi host          Enables periodic time synchronization, and VMware Tools sets the time of  

                                                  the guest operating system to be the same as the time of the ESXi host. 

     Synchronize time with NTP servers            Uses a Network Time Protocol server for synchronizing the time. If you  

                                                  select this option, you must enter the names or IP addresses of the NTP  

                                                  servers separated by commas. 

       

3    Create a new vCenter Single Sign-On domain or join an existing domain. 

     Option                                       Description 

     Create a new Single Sign-On domain           Creates a new vCenter Single Sign-On domain. 

                                                  a    Enter the domain name, for example vsphere.local. 

                                                       Note   Ensure that the domain name does not contain any upper-case  

                                                       letters. 

                                                  b   Set the password for the vCenter Single Sign-On administrator account. 

                                                      This is the password for the user administrator@your_domain_name . 

                                                  c   Confirm the administrator password, and click Next. 

     Join an existing vCenter Single Sign-        Joins a new vCenter Single Sign-On server to an existing vCenter Single  

     On domain                                    Sign-On domain. You must provide the information about the vCenter Single  

                                                  Sign-On server to which you join the new vCenter Single Sign-On server. 

                                                  a    Enter the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) or IP address of the  

                                                      vCenter Single Sign-On server to join. 

                                                  b    Enter the HTTPS port to use for communication with the vCenter Single  

                                                      Sign-On server. 

                                                  c    Enter the domain name for the vCenter Single Sign-On you are joining,  

                                                      for example vsphere.local. 

                                                  d    Enter the password of the vCenter Single Sign-On administrator account. 

                                                  e   Click Next. 

       
     When you select to join an existing vCenter Single Sign-On domain, you enable the Enhanced  

     Linked Mode feature. The infrastructure data is replicated with the joined vCenter Single  

     Sign-On server. 

4    Review the VMware Customer Experience Improvement Program (CEIP) page and choose if  

     you want to join the program. 

     For information about the CEIP, see the Configuring Customer Experience Improvement  

     Program section in vCenter Server and Host Management . 

5    On the Ready to complete page, review the configuration settings for the vCenter Server  

     appliance, click Finish, and click OK to complete stage 2 of the deployment process and set  

     up the appliance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                   33 

----------------------- Page 34-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

6    (Optional) After the initial setup finishes, enter the URL from the browser with  

     https://vcenter_server_appliance_fqdn/ui to go to the vSphere Client and log in to  

    the vCenter Server instance in the vCenter Server appliance, or click the https:// 

    vcenter_server_appliance_fqdn :443 to go the vCenter Server appliance Getting Started  

     page. 

7    Click Close to exit the wizard. 

    You are redirected to the vCenter Server appliance Getting Started page. 

What to do next 

You can configure high availability for the vCenter Server appliance. For information about  

providing vCenter Server appliance high availability, see vSphere Availability . 

CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

You can use the CLI installer to perform a silent deployment of a vCenter Server appliance on an  

ESXi host or vCenter Server instance. 

The CLI deployment process includes downloading the vCenter Server installer on a network  

virtual machine or physical server from which you want to perform the deployment, preparing a  

JSON configuration file with the deployment information, and running the deployment command. 

You can also watch the video about how to install the vCenter Server appliance by using the CLI  

installer. 

            (vCenter Server Command Line Installation) 

Prepare Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment 

Before you run the CLI installer to deploy a vCenter Server appliance, you must prepare a JSON  

file with configuration parameters and their values for your deployment specification. 

The vCenter Server installer contains JSON templates for all deployment options. For information  

about the templates, see JSON Templates for CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance. 

You can deploy an appliance with minimum configurations by setting values to the configuration  
parameters in the JSON template for your specification. You can edit the preset values, remove  

configuration parameters, and add configuration parameters for custom configurations. 

For a complete list of the configuration parameters and their descriptions, navigate to  

the installer subdirectory for your operating system and run the vcsa-deploy install -- 

template-help command or see Deployment Configuration Parameters. 

Prerequisites 

n   You must be familiar with the JSON syntax. 

n    Download and Mount the vCenter Server Installer. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               34 

----------------------- Page 35-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Procedure 

1    In the vCenter Server installer, navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer directory, and open the  

     templates subfolder. 

2    Copy the deployment templates from the install subfolder to your workspace. 

     Important   The path to the JSON configuration files must contain only ASCII characters.  

     Extended ASCII and non-ASCII characters are unsupported. 

3    In a text editor, open the template file for your specification. 

     To ensure the correct syntax of your JSON configuration file, use a JSON editor. 

4    Fill in the values for the required configuration parameters and, optionally, enter additional  

     parameters and their values. 

     For example, if you want to use an IPv4 DHCP assignment for the network of the appliance, in  

    the network subsection of the template, change the value of the mode parameter to dhcp and  

     remove the default configuration parameters that are for a static assignment. 

              "network": { 

                  "ip_family": "ipv4", 

                  "mode": "dhcp" 

              }, 

     Important   The string values, including the passwords, must contain only ASCII characters.  

     Extended ASCII and non-ASCII characters are unsupported.  

    To set a value that contains a backslash (\) or quotation mark (")  

     character, you must precede the character with the backslash (\) character. For  

     example, "password":"my\"password" sets the password my"password,  "image":"G:\ 

     \vcsa\\VMware-vCenter-Server-Appliance-8.0.0.XXXX-YYYYYYY_OVF10.ova" sets the path  

     G:\vcsa\VMware-vCenter-Server-Appliance-8.0.0.XXXX-YYYYYYY_OVF10.ova. 

     The Boolean values must contain only lowercase characters, that is, a value can be either  

     true or false. For example, "ssh_enable":false. 

5    (Optional) Use a JSON editor of your choice to validate the JSON file. 

6    Save in UTF-8 format and close the file. 

What to do next 

You can create and save additional templates if needed for your deployment specification. 

JSON Templates for CLI Deployment of the vCenter Server Appliance 

The vCenter Server installer includes JSON templates with the minimum configuration parameters  

for all deployment options. The templates are located in the vcsa-cli-installer/templates/ 

install directory. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               35 

----------------------- Page 36-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

For each deployment option, there is one template for deploying the appliance on an ESXi host  

and another template for deploying the appliance on a vCenter Server instance. 

Table 2-5. Deployment JSON Templates Included in the vCenter Server Installer 

 Template                                                          Description 

 embedded_vCSA_on_ESXi.json                                       Contains the minimum configuration parameters required  

                                                                  for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance on an  

                                                                  ESXi host. 

 vCSA_with_cluster_on_ESXi.json                                   Contains the minimum configuration parameters required  

                                                                  for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance with  

                                                                  a single node vSAN and a vLCM managed cluster on an  

                                                                  ESXi host. 

 embedded_vCSA_on_VC.json                                         Contains the minimum configuration parameters required  

                                                                  for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance on a  

                                                                  vCenter Server instance. 

 embedded_vCSA_replication_on_ESXi.json                           Contains the minimum configuration parameters required  

                                                                  for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance as a  

                                                                   replication partner to another embedded vCenter Server  

                                                                  on an ESXi host. 

 embedded_vCSA_replication_on_VC.json                             Contains the minimum configuration parameters required  

                                                                  for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                                   replication partner to another vCenter Server appliance  

                                                                  on a vCenter Server instance. 

Deployment Configuration Parameters 

When you prepare your JSON configuration files for a CLI deployment, you must set parameters  

and values to provide input data for the deployment of a vCenter Server appliance. 

Sections and Subsections of Configuration Parameters in the JSON Deployment Files 

The configuration parameters in the JSON configuration files for a CLI upgrade are organized in  

sections and subsections. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                              36 

----------------------- Page 37-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-6. Sections and Subsections of Configuration Parameters in the JSON Deployment Files 

                                  Subsecti 

  Section                         on            Description 

  new_vcsa - describes the        esxi          Use only if you want to deploy the appliance directly on an ESXi host. 

  appliance you want to                         Contains the configuration parameters that describe the target ESXi host. 

  deploy                                        Depending on whether you want to configure a vSAN or a vLCM Managed  

                                                Cluster during the deployment, see the relevant section for a detailed  

                                                information about the configuration parameters. 

                                                n   Table 2-7. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, esxi  

                                                    Subsection for Deployments with a vSAN and a vLCM Managed Cluster 

                                                n   Table 2-8. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, esxi  

                                                    Subsection for Deployments without a vSAN or a vLCM Managed Cluster 

                                                Note   You must fill in either the esxi or the vc subsection. 

                                  vc            Use only if you want to deploy the appliance on the inventory of a vCenter  

                                                Server instance. 

                                                Contains the configuration parameters that describe the target ESXi host or  

                                                DRS cluster from the vCenter Server inventory. See Table 2-9. Configuration  

                                                Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, vc Subsection. 

                                                Note   You must fill in either the vc or the esxi subsection. 

                                  applianc      Contains the configuration parameters that describe the appliance. See Table  

                                  e             2-10. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, appliance Subsection. 

                                  network       Contains the configuration parameters that describe the network settings  

                                               for the appliance. See Table 2-11. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa  

                                                Section, network Subsection. 

                                  os            Contains the configuration parameters that describe the operating system  

                                                settings for the appliance. See Table 2-12. Configuration Parameters in the  

                                                new_vcsa Section, os Subsection. 

                                  sso           Contains the configuration parameters that describe the vCenter Single Sign- 
                                                On settings for the appliance. See Table 2-13. Configuration Parameters in the  

                                                new_vcsa Section, sso Subsection. 

                                  ovftool_      Optional subsection for adding arbitrary arguments and their values to the  

                                  argument      OVF Tool command that the installer generates. 

                                  s 
                                                Important   The vCenter Server installer does not validate the configuration  

                                                parameters in the ovftool_arguments subsection. If you set arguments that  

                                               the OVF Tool does not recognize, the deployment might fail. 

  ceip - describes joining        settings      Contains only the ceip_enabled configuration parameter to join or not to join  

  the VMware Customer                          the VMware Customer Experience Improvement Program (CEIP). See Table  
  Experience Improvement                        2-14. Configuration Parameters in the ceip Section, settings Subsection. 

  Program (CEIP) 
                                                Note   If set to true, you must run the CLI deployment command with the  

                                                --acknowledge-ceip argument. 

                                                For information about the CEIP, see the Configuring Customer Experience  

                                                Improvement Program section in vCenter Server and Host Management . 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                      37 

----------------------- Page 38-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Important   The string values, including the passwords, must contain only ASCII characters.  

Extended ASCII and non-ASCII characters are unsupported.  

To set a value that contains a backslash (\) or a quotation mark (") character, you must  

precede the character with the backslash (\) character. For example, "password":"my\"password"  

sets the password my"password. Similarly, "image":"G:\\vcsa\\VMware-vCenter-Server- 

Appliance-8.0.0.XXXX-YYYYYYY_OVF10.ova" sets the path G:\vcsa\VMware-vCenter-Server- 

Appliance-8.0.0.XXXX-YYYYYYY_OVF10.ova. 

Boolean values must contain only lowercase characters. It must be either true or false. For  

example, "ssh_enable":false. 

Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section 

Table 2-7. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, esxi Subsection for Deployments  
with a vSAN and a vLCM Managed Cluster 

  Name                          Type          Description 

 hostname                       string        The IP address or FQDN of the target ESXi host on which you want to deploy  

                                              the appliance. 

 username                       string        A user name with administrative privileges on the target ESXi host, for  

                                              example, root. 

 password                       string        The password of the user with administrative privileges on the target ESXi  
                                              host. 

  deployment_network            string        The name of the network to which to connect the appliance. 

                                              Note   The network must be accessible from the target ESXi host. 

                                              Ignored if the target ESXi host has only one network. 

  datacenter                    string        A specific data center you want to create. 

  cluster                       string        The name of the vSAN or vLCM managed cluster. 

  compression_only               Boolean      Set the value to true to enable compression on the vSAN cluster. If this  

                                              parameter is set to true, the deduplication_and_compression parameter must  

                                              be set tofalse. 

  deduplication_and_comp         Boolean      Set the value to true to enable compression and deduplication on the vSAN  

  ression                                     cluster. If this parameter is set to true, the compression_only parameter must  

                                              be set to false. 

  cache_disk                                  A list of UUIDs or canonical names of disks you want to use for cache. Specify  

                                              only SSDs. 

  capacity_disk                               A list of UUIDs or canonical names of disks you want to use for storage.  

                                              Specify either SSDs or HDDs. 

  enable_vlcm                    Boolean      Set to true to create a vLCM managed cluster. 

  enable_vsan_esa                Boolean      Set to true to create a vSAN cluster with vSAN ESA enabled. vSAN  

                                              Express Storage Architecture is a next-generation architecture designed to  

                                              get the most out of high-performance storage devices, resulting in greater  

                                              performance and efficiency. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                38 

----------------------- Page 39-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-7. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, esxi Subsection for Deployments  
with a vSAN and a vLCM Managed Cluster (continued) 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  single_tier                     Array        A list of UUIDs or canonical names of disks you want to add to a vSAN storage  

                                                pool. Required only if you set enable_vsan_esa to true. 

 vsan_hcl_database_path           String        Local vSAN HCL database path. If the vSAN HCL database present in this  

                                                location is outdated, the installer will download and replace the older version  

                                               with the latest version. Required only if you set enable_vsan_esa to true. 

  datastore                       string        The name of the datastore where you want to store the configuration files and  

                                               virtual disks of the appliance. 

                                                Note   The datastore must be accessible from the ESXi host.  

                                                If you are using the thin disk mode, the datastore size should have a miniumu  

                                                of 25GB space. 

 port                             integer       The HTTPS reverse proxy port of the target ESXi host. 

                                                The default port is 443. Use only if the target ESXi host uses a custom HTTPS  

                                                reverse proxy port. 

Table 2-8. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, esxi Subsection for Deployments  
without a vSAN or a vLCM Managed Cluster 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  hostname                        string        The IP address or FQDN of the target ESXi host on which you want to deploy  

                                                the appliance. 

  username                        string       A user name with administrative privileges on the target ESXi host, for  

                                                example, root. 

 password                         string        The password of the user with administrative privileges on the target ESXi  
                                                host. 

  deployment_network              string        The name of the network to which to connect the appliance. 

                                                Note   The network must be accessible from the target ESXi host. 

                                                Ignored if the target ESXi host has only one network. 

  datastore                       string        The name of the datastore where you want to store the configuration files and  

                                               virtual disks of the appliance. 

                                                Note   The datastore must be accessible from the ESXi host.  

                                                If you are using the thin disk mode, the datastore size should have a miniumu  

                                                of 25GB space. 

 port                             integer       The HTTPS reverse proxy port of the target ESXi host. 

                                                The default port is 443. Use only if the target ESXi host uses a custom HTTPS  

                                                reverse proxy port. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                      39 

----------------------- Page 40-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-9. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, vc Subsection 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  hostname                        string        The IP address or FQDN of the target vCenter Server instance on which you  

                                                want to deploy the appliance. 

  username                        string        vCenter Single Sign-On administrator user name on the target vCenter Server  

                                                instance, for example, administrator@vsphere.local. 

 password                         string        The password of the vCenter Single Sign-On administrator user on the target  

                                                vCenter Server instance. 

  deployment_network              string        The name of the network to which to connect the appliance. 

                                                Note   The network must be accessible from the target ESXi host or DRS  

                                                cluster on which you want to deploy the appliance. 

                                                Ignored if the target ESXi host or DRS cluster has only one network. 

  datacenter                      array         The vCenter Server datacenter that contains the target ESXi host or DRS  

                                                cluster on which you want to deploy the appliance. 

                                                If the datacenter is located in a folder or a structure of folders, specify the  

                                                value as a comma-separated list of strings. For example, 

                                                   ["parent_folder", "child_folder", "datacenter_name"] 

                                                Note   The value is case-sensitive. 

  datastore                       string        The name of the datastore that you want to store the configuration files and  

                                                virtual disks of the appliance. 

                                                Note   The datastore must be accessible from the target ESXi host or DRS  

                                                cluster.  

                                                The datastore must have at least 25 GB of free space. 

 port                             integer       The HTTPS reverse proxy port of the target vCenter Server instance. 

                                                The default port is 443. Use only if the target vCenter Server instance uses a  

                                                custom HTTPS reverse proxy port. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                       40 

----------------------- Page 41-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-9. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, vc Subsection (continued) 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  target                          array         The target ESXi host or DRS cluster on which you want to deploy the  

                                                appliance. 

                                                Important   You must provide the name that is displayed in the vCenter Server  

                                                inventory. For example, if the name of the target ESXi host is an IP address in  

                                               the vCenter Server inventory, you cannot provide an FQDN. 

                                                If the target ESXi host or DRS cluster is located in a folder or a structure of  

                                               folders, specify the value as a comma-separated list of strings. For example, 

                                                  ["parent_folder", "child_folder", "esxi-host.domain.com"] 

                                                If the target ESXi host is part of a cluster, specify the path as a comma- 

                                                separated list of strings. For example, 

                                                  ["cluster_name", "esxi-host.domain.com"]  
                                                                    

                                                Note   The value is case-sensitive. 

 vm_folder                        string        Optional. The name of the VM folder where the appliance is deployed. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                      41 

----------------------- Page 42-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-10. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, appliance Subsection 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  thin_disk_mode                  Boolean       Set to true to deploy the appliance with thin virtual disks. 

  deployment_option               string        The size of the appliance. 

                                                n    Set to tiny if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for up to 10  

                                                     hosts and 100 virtual machines with the default storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 2 CPUs, 12 GB of memory, and 315 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to tiny-lstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for  

                                                     up to 10 hosts and 100 virtual machines with the large storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 2 CPUs, 12 GB of memory, and 1390 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to tiny-xlstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 10 hosts and 100 virtual machines with the x-large storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 2 CPUs, 12 GB of memory, and 3145 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to small if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for up to  

                                                    100 hosts and 1,000 virtual machines with the default storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 4 CPUs, 19 GB of memory, and 380 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to small-lstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 100 hosts and 1,000 virtual machines with the large storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 4 CPUs, 19 GB of memory, and 1435 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to small-xlstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 100 hosts and 1,000 virtual machines with the x-large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 4 CPUs, 19 GB of memory, and 3195 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to medium if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for up to  

                                                     400 hosts and 4,000 virtual machines with the default storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 8 CPUs, 28 GB of memory, and 600 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to medium-lstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 400 hosts and 4,000 virtual machines with the large storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 8 CPUs, 28 GB of memory, and 1600 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to medium-xlstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 400 hosts and 4,000 virtual machines with the x-large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 8 CPUs, 28 GB of memory, and 3360 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to large if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for up to  

                                                    1,000 hosts and 10,000 virtual machines with the default storage size. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                       42 

----------------------- Page 43-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-10. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, appliance Subsection (continued) 

  Name                            Type          Description 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 16 CPUs, 37 GB of memory, and 965 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to large-lstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 1,000 hosts and 10,000 virtual machines with the large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 16 CPUs, 37 GB of memory, and 1665 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to large-xlstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 1,000 hosts and 10,000 virtual machines with the x-large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 16 CPUs, 37 GB of memory, and 3425 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to xlarge if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance for up to  

                                                     2,000 hosts and 35,000 virtual machines with the default storage size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 24 CPUs, 56 GB of memory, and 1705 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to xlarge-lstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 2,000 hosts and 35,000 virtual machines with the large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 24 CPUs, 56 GB of memory, and 1805 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

                                                n    Set to xlarge-xlstorage if you want to deploy a vCenter Server appliance  

                                                    for up to 2,000 hosts and 35,000 virtual machines with the x-large storage  

                                                     size. 

                                                     Deploys an appliance with 24 CPUs, 56 GB of memory, and 3565 GB of  

                                                     storage. 

  image                           string        Optional. A local file path or URL to the vCenter Server appliance installation  

                                                package. 

                                                By default the installer uses the installation package that is included in the ISO  

                                                file, in the vcsa folder. 

  name                            string        The VM name for the appliance. 

                                                Must contain only ASCII characters except a percent sign (%), backslash (\), or  

                                                forward slash (/) and must be no more than 80 characters in length. 

  ovftool_path                    string        Optional. A local file path to the OVF Tool executable file. 

                                                By default the installer uses the OVF Tool instance that is included in the ISO  

                                                file, in the vcsa/ovftool folder. 

Table 2-11. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, network Subsection 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  ip_family                       string        IP version for the network of the appliance. 

                                                Set to ipv4 or ipv6. 

 mode                             string        IP assignment for the network of the appliance. 

                                                Set to static or dhcp. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                       43 

----------------------- Page 44-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-11. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, network Subsection (continued) 

  Name                            Type          Description 

  ip                              string        IP address for the appliance. 

                                                Required only if you use static assignment, that is, if you set the mode  

                                                parameter to static. 

                                               You must set an IPv4 or IPv6 address that corresponds to the network IP  

                                               version, that is, to the value of the ip.family parameter. 

                                               An IPv4 address must comply with the RFC 790 guidelines. 

                                               An IPv6 address must comply with the RFC 2373 guidelines. 

  dns_servers                     string or     IP addresses of one or more DNS servers. 

                                  array         To set more than one DNS server, use a comma-separated list of strings or a  

                                                comma-separated list as a single string to provide the path. For example, 

                                                  ["x.y.z.a", "x.y.z.b"] 

                                                or 

                                                 "x.y.z.a, x.y.z.b" 

                                                Optional when the mode parameter is set to static. Not supported when mode  

                                                is set to DHCP. 

 prefix                           string        Network prefix length. 

                                                Use only if the mode parameter is set to static. Remove if the mode parameter  

                                                is set to dhcp. 

                                                The network prefix length is the number of bits that are set in the subnet  

                                                mask. For example, if the subnet mask is 255.255.255.0, there are 24 bits in  

                                               the binary version of the prefix length, so the network prefix length is 24. 

                                                For IPv4 version, the value must be between 0 and 32. 

                                                For IPv6 version, the value must be between 0 and  128. 

  gateway                         string        IP address of the default gateway. 

                                                For IPv6 version, the value can be default. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                     44 

----------------------- Page 45-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-11. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, network Subsection (continued) 

  Name                            Type          Description 

 ports                            string        Optional. Port numbers that the vCenter Server appliance uses for direct HTTP  

                                                connections. By default, port 80 redirects requests to HTTPS port 443. You  

                                                can customize the vCenter Server HTTP and HTTPS ports. If specifying a  

                                                custom HTTP and HTTPS port number, ensure that you do not use a port  

                                                already in use by vCenter Server, or the default HTTP and HTTPS ports of 80  

                                                and 443. 

                                                The options to specify a custom port are:  

                                                "rhttpproxy.ext.port1":"port_number" for the HTTP port, and  

                                                "rhttpproxy.ext.port2:"port_number" for the HTTPS port. 

                                                The following example specifies ports 81 and 444 for the HTTP and HTTPS  

                                                ports: 

                                                 ports: {"rhttpproxy.ext.port1":"81",  
                                                 "rhttpproxy.ext.port2":"444"} 

                                                For more information on ports in use by vCenter Server, see Required Ports  

                                               for vCenter Server . 

  system_name                     string        Primary network identity. 

                                                Can be an IP address or FQDN, preferably FQDN. 

                                               You cannot change the value of this parameter after the deployment. 

                                                The FQDN and dotted-decimal numbers must comply with the RFC 1123  

                                                guidelines. 

Table 2-12. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, os Subsection 

  Name                            Type          Description 

 password                         string        The password for the root user of the appliance operating system. 

                                                The password must contain between 8 and 20 characters, at least one  

                                                uppercase letter, at least one lowercase letter, at least one number, and at  

                                                least one special character, for example, a dollar sign ($), hash key (#), at  

                                                sign (@), period (.), or exclamation mark (!). All characters must be lower ASCII  

                                                characters without spaces. 

  ntp_servers                     string or     Optional. Host names or IP addresses of one or more NTP servers for time  

                                  array         synchronization. 

                                                To set more than one NTP server, use a comma-separated list of strings or a  

                                                comma-separated list as a single string to provide the path. For example, 

                                                  ["x.y.z.a", "x.y.z.b"] 

                                                or 

                                                 "x.y.z.a, x.y.z.b" 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                     45 

----------------------- Page 46-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 2-12. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, os Subsection (continued) 

  Name                           Type          Description 

  ssh_enable                     Boolean       Set to true to enable SSH administrator login to the appliance. 

                                               Note   vCenter Server appliance high availability requires remote SSH access  

                                               to the appliance. 

  time_tools_sync                Boolean       Optional. Set to true to deploy the appliance with the VMware Tools time  

                                               synchronization. VMware Tools synchronizes the time of the appliance with  

                                               the time of the ESxi host. 

                                               Ignored if you set NTP servers for time synchronization, that is, if you set the  

                                               ntp.servers parameter. 

Table 2-13. Configuration Parameters in the new_vcsa Section, sso Subsection 

  Name                           Type          Description 

 password                        string        Password of the vCenter Single Sign-On administrator user,  

                                               administrator@your_domain_name . 

                                               If you are deploying a vCenter Server appliance as the first instance in a new  

                                               vCenter Single Sign-On domain, you must set the password for the vCenter  

                                               Single Sign-On administrator user. 

                                               The password must contain between 8 and 20 characters, at least one  

                                               uppercase letter, at least one lowercase letter, at least one number, and at  

                                               least one special character, for example, a dollar sign ($), hash key (#), at  

                                               sign (@), period (.), or exclamation mark (!). All characters must be ASCII  

                                               characters. 

  domain_name                    string        vCenter Single Sign-On domain name, for example, vsphere.local. 

                                               If you are deploying a vCenter Server appliance as the first instance in a new  

                                               vCenter Single Sign-On domain, you must set the name for the new vCenter  

                                               Single Sign-On domain. 

  replication_partner_ho         string        The system name of the partner vCenter Server. 

  stname                                       Required only if you are deploying a replication partner in an existing vCenter  

                                               Single Sign-On domain. 

  sso_port                       integer       The HTTPS reverse proxy port of the partner vCenter Server . 

                                               The default port is 443. Use only if the partner uses a custom HTTPS reverse  

                                               proxy port. 

Configuration Parameters in the ceip Section 

Table 2-14. Configuration Parameters in the ceip Section, settings Subsection 

  Name                           Type          Description 

  ceip_enabled                   Boolean       Set to true to join the CEIP for this appliance. 

Syntax of the CLI Deployment Command 

You can use command arguments to set the execution parameters of the deployment command. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                   46 

----------------------- Page 47-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

You can add a space-separated list of arguments to the CLI deployment command. 

  vcsa-deploy install path_to_the_json_file list_of_arguments 

 Argument                                                             Description 

  --accept-eula                                                      Accepts the end-user license agreement. 

                                                                      Required for executing the deployment command. 

  --acknowledge-ceip                                                  Confirms your acknowledgement of your VMware  

                                                                      Customer Experience Improvement Program (CEIP)  

                                                                      participation. 

                                                                      Required if the ceip.enabled parameter is set to true in  

                                                                     the JSON deployment template. 

  -v, --verbose                                                      Adds debug information to the console output. 

  -t, --terse                                                         Hides the console output. Displays only warning and error  

                                                                      messages. 

  --log-dir LOG_DIR                                                  Sets the location of the log and other output files. 

  --skip-ovftool-verification                                         Performs basic verification of the configuration  

                                                                      parameters in the JSON file and deploys the appliance.  

                                                                      Does not perform verification of the OVF Tool  

                                                                      parameters. 

  --no-esx-ssl-verify                                                Skips the SSL verification for ESXi connections. 

                                                                      Important   Avoid using this option because it might  

                                                                     cause problems during deployment or after deployment  

                                                                      because of not validated identity of the target ESXi host. 

  --no-ssl-certificate-verification                                  Skips security certificate verification for all server  

                                                                     connections. 

  --operation-id OPERATION_ID                                         Provides an operation ID to track installation activities. 

  --pause-on-warnings                                                 Pauses and waits for acknowledgment of warnings. 

  --verify-template-only                                              Performs basic template verification of the configuration  

                                                                      parameters in the JSON file. Does not deploy the  
                                                                      appliance. 

  --precheck-only                                                     Performs only the basic template verification and  

                                                                      OVF Tool parameter verification. Does not deploy the  

                                                                      appliance. 

  --sso-ssl-thumbprint SSL-SHA1-THUMBPRINT                           Validates server certificate against the supplied SHA1  

                                                                     thumbprint. 

  -h, --help                                                          Displays the help message for the vcsa-deploy install  

                                                                     command. 

  --template-help                                                     Displays the help message for the use of configuration  

                                                                      parameters in the JSON deployment file. 

After the execution finishes, you can get the exit code of the command. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                    47 

----------------------- Page 48-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Exit Code   Description 

0           Command ran successfully 

1           Runtime error 

2           Validation error 

3           Template error 

Deploy a vCenter Server Appliance by Using the CLI 

You can use the CLI installer to perform an unattended deployment of a vCenter Server  

appliance. You must run the CLI deployment from a Windows, Linux, or Mac machine that is  

in the network on which you want to deploy the appliance. 

Prerequisites 

n    See Prerequisites for Deploying the vCenter Server Appliance. 

n    Prepare Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment. 

n    Review Syntax of the CLI Deployment Command. 

n    Verify that the user name with which you are logged in to your client machine, the path to  

     the vCenter Server installer, the path to your JSON configuration file, and the string values  

     in your JSON configuration file contain only ASCII characters. Extended ASCII and non-ASCII  

     characters are unsupported. 

n    The Visual C++ redistributable libraries version 14.0 or newer needs to be installed to run  

     this utility on versions of Windows older than Windows 10. The Microsoft installers for these  

     libraries are located in the vcsa\ovftool\win32\vcredist directory. 

Procedure 

1    Navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer subdirectory for your operating system. 

     n   If you are running the deployment on Windows OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli- 

         installer\win32 directory. 

     n   If you are running the deployment on Linux OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer/ 

         lin64 directory. 

     n   If you are running the deployment on Mac OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer/mac  

         directory. 

2    (Optional) Run a pre-deployment check without deploying the appliance to verify that you  

     prepared the deployment template correctly. 

      vcsa-deploy install --precheck-only path_to_the_json_file 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                  48 

----------------------- Page 49-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

3    Run the deployment command. 

      vcsa-deploy install --accept-eula --acknowledge-ceip optional_arguments  

      path_to_the_json_file 

     Use optional_arguments to enter space-separated arguments to set additional execution  

     parameters of the deployment command. 

     For example, you can set the location of the log and other output files that the installer  

    generates. 

      vcsa-deploy install --accept-eula --acknowledge-ceip --log-dir=path_to_the_location  

      path_to_the_json_file 

Deploy Multiple vCenter Server Appliances Using the CLI 

You can deploy multiple instances vCenter Server appliances concurrently (in batch mode) using  

the CLI installer. 

To deploy multiple instances concurrently, create JSON templates for all the vCenter Server  
instances in your deployment. The CLI installer assesses the topology of the deployment using  

the JSON templates, and determines the order. For this reason, the JSON templates must use  

static IP addresses for all vCenter Server instances in the deployment that are dependant upon  

one another. 

Important   The JSON templates you create for each appliance must use a static IP address to  

resolve the network addresses of other appliances in the deployment upon which they have a  

dependency. 

To perform the batch deployment, place the JSON templates defining your deployment in a  

single directory. When invoked, the CLI installer deploys your existing deployment using the  

topology defined in the JSON templates. 

Procedure 

1    In your workspace, create a folder to contain the JSON files for batch deployment. For  

    example, MyWorkspace/BatchDeploy. 

2    Prepare each JSON configuration file and copy the file to your batch deployment folder. See  

     Prepare Your JSON Configuration File for CLI Deployment for instructions on configuring the  

    JSON files. 

3    Navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer subdirectory for your operating system. 

    n    If you are running the deployment on Windows OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli- 

         installer\win32 directory. 

    n    If you are running the deployment on Linux OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer/ 

         lin64 directory. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                              49 

----------------------- Page 50-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     n   If you are running the deployment on Mac OS, navigate to the vcsa-cli-installer/mac  

         directory. 

4    (Optional) Run a pre-deployment check without deploying the appliance to verify that you  

     prepared the deployment template correctly. For example: 

      vcsa-deploy install --precheck-only MyWorkspace/BatchDeploy 

5    Run the deployment command. For example, 

      vcsa-deploy install --accept-eula --acknowledge-ceip optional_arguments MyWorkspace/ 

      BatchDeploy 

     Use optional_arguments to enter space-separated arguments to set additional execution  

     parameters of the deployment command. 

     For example, you can set the location of the log and other output files that the installer  
     generates. 

      vcsa-deploy install --accept-eula --acknowledge-ceip --log-dir=path_to_the_location  

      MyWorkspace/BatchDeploy 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                50 

----------------------- Page 51-----------------------

File-Based Backup and Restore of  
vCenter Server                                                                                      3 

vCenter Server supports a file-based backup and restore mechanism that helps you to recover  

your environment after failures. 

You can use the vCenter Server Interface to create a file-based backup of the vCenter Server.  

After you create the backup, you can restore it by using the GUI installer of the appliance. 

You use the vCenter Server Interface to perform a file-based backup of the vCenter Server core  

configuration, inventory, and historical data of your choice. The backed-up data is streamed over  

FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or SMB to a remote system. The backup is not stored on  

the vCenter Server. 

You can perform a file-based restore only for a vCenter Server that you have previously backed  

up by using the vCenter Server Interface. You can perform such restore operation by using the  

GUI installer of the vCenter Server appliance. The process consists of deploying a new vCenter  

Server appliance and copying the data from the file-based backup to the new appliance. 

Important   If you back up a vCenter Server High Availability cluster, the backup operation  

only backs up the primary vCenter Server instance. Before restoring a vCenter Server High  

Availability cluster, you must power off the active, passive, and witness nodes. The restore  

operation restores the vCenter Server in non-vCenter Server High Availability mode. You must  

reconstruct the cluster after the restore operation completes successfully. 

Read the following topics next: 

n   Considerations and Limitations for File-Based Backup and Restore  

n   Schedule a File-Based Backup 

n   Manually Back Up vCenter Server by Using the vCenter Server Management Interface 

n   Restore vCenter Server from a File-Based Backup 

Considerations and Limitations for File-Based Backup and  
Restore 

When you backup or restore a vCenter Server environment, take into account these  

considerations and limitations. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                        51 

----------------------- Page 52-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Protocols 

The following considerations apply to file-based backup and restore protocols: 

n   FTP and HTTP are not secure protocols. 

n   Backup servers must support minimum of 10 simultaneous connections for each vCenter  

    Server. 

n   You can use an FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or SMB server that is up and running  

    with sufficient disk space to store the backup. 

n   You must have write permissions for upload and read permissions for download. 

n   Only explicit mode is supported for FTPS. 

n   If you use HTTP or HTTPS, you must enable WebDAV on the backup Web server. 

n   You can use only FTP, FTPS, HTTP, or HTTPS to transmit data through an HTTP proxy server. 

n   You can use IPv4 and IPv6 URLs in file-based backup and restore of a vCenter Server. Mixed  

    mode of IP versions between the backup server and the vCenter Server is unsupported. 

Configuration 

After a restore, the following configurations revert to the state when the backup was taken. 

n   Virtual machine resource settings 

n   Resource pool hierarchy and setting 

n   Cluster-host membership 

n   DRS configuration and rules 

Storage DRS 

If the configuration changes, the following might change after a restore. 

n   Datastore Cluster configuration 

n   Datastore Cluster membership 

n   Datastore I/O Resource Management (Storage I/O Control) settings 

n   Datastore-Datacenter membership 

n   Host-Datastore membership 

Distributed Power Management 

If you put a host into standby mode after a backup, the vCenter Server might force the host to  

exit standby mode when you restore to the backup. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                         52 

----------------------- Page 53-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Distributed Virtual Switch 

If you use a distributed virtual switch, you are advised to export separately the distributed virtual  

switch configuration before you restore from a backup. You can import the configuration after  

the restore. If you omit this consideration, you may lose the changes made to a distributed  

virtual switch after the backup. For detailed steps, see the VMware knowledge base article at  

http://kb.vmware.com/kb/2034602. 

However, when you restore the host-membership after a backup, you will not lose any host that  

you have added or removed from the distributed virtual switch after the backup. 

Note   You can only restore the distributed virtual switch-host membership if the host is part of  

the cluster. 

Content Libraries 

If you delete libraries or items after a backup, you cannot access or use these libraries or items  

after the restore. You can only delete such libraries or items. A warning message notifies you that  

there are missing files or folders in the storage backup. 

If you create new items or item files after the backup, the Content Library Service has no record  

of the new items or files after the restore operation. A warning notifies you that extra folders or  

files were found on the storage backup. 

If you create new libraries after the backup, the Content Library Service has no record of the  

new libraries after restore. The library content exists on the storage backing, but no warning is  

displayed. You must manually clean the new libraries. 

Virtual Machine Life Cycle Operations 

n    Restoring vCenter Server from a backup that was taken during in-flight relocation operations  

     in the vCenter Server instance. 

     After you restore vCenter Server, the vCenter Server view of the virtual machines might be  

     out of sync with the ESXi view of the virtual machines. This is also true if you performed the  

     backup during in-flight operations on vCenter Server. If virtual machines disappear after you  

     restore vCenter Server, you can refer to the following cases. 

     a   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host and is registered with  
         the destination ESXi host, but it is either an orphan or not in the vCenter Server inventory.  

         You must manually add the virtual machine to the vCenter Server inventory. 

     b   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host, but it is not registered  

         with the destination ESXi host and it is not in the vCenter Server inventory. You must  

         manually register the virtual machine to the ESXi host and add the virtual machine back to  

         the vCenter Server inventory. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                53 

----------------------- Page 54-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     c   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host, but it is not registered  

         with the destination ESXi host. In the vCenter Server instance, the missing virtual machine  

         is marked as orphaned. You must remove the virtual machine from the vCenter Server  

         inventory and add it again. 

n    Restoring vCenter Server from a backup that has an out-of-date linked clone virtual machine  

     layout. 

     If you create a linked clone virtual machine after the backup and you restore vCenter Server  

     from the old backup, then after the restore, the vCenter Server does not know about the  

     new linked clone virtual machine until vCenter Server discovers the new linked clone virtual  

     machine. If you remove all existing virtual machines before the new linked clone virtual  

     machine is discovered, then the removal of existing virtual machines corrupts the new linked  

     clone due to missing disks. To avoid this, you must wait until all linked clone virtual machines  

     are discovered by the vCenter Server before you remove virtual machines. 

n    Restoring vCenter Server from a backup that was taken during virtual machine registration. 

     If you are registering a virtual machine during the backup and you restore vCenter Server  
     from the old backup, then after the restore, the virtual machine is marked as orphaned in the  

    vCenter Server instance. You must manually add the virtual machine to the vCenter Server  

     inventory. 

vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode 

To restore a vCenter Server that is part of an Enhanced Linked Mode, you must have at least one  

running vCenter Server that has the VMware Directory Service database. 

If the replication partners are temporarily unavailable or network-isolated, fix the replication  

partners before restoring the node. If all nodes in the federation have failed, you can ignore  

the warning and restore only the first node without replication partners. Restore the rest of the  

nodes according to the Enhanced Linked Mode topology. 

vSphere High Availability 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup might cause it to rollback to older version for the  

vSphere HA cluster state (HostList, ClusterConfiguration, VM protection state) while the hosts  

in the cluster have the latest version for the cluster state. You need to make sure the vSphere  
HA cluster state stays the same during restore and backup operations. Otherwise, the following  

problems might occur. 

n    If hosts are added or removed to or from the vSphere HA cluster after backup and  

     before vCenter Server restore, virtual machines could potentially failover to hosts not being  

     managed by the vCenter Server but are still part of the HA cluster. 

n    Protection state for new virtual machines is not updated on the vSphere HA agents on the  

     hosts that are part of the vSphere HA cluster. As a result, virtual machines are not protected  

     or unprotected. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                54 

----------------------- Page 55-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

n    New cluster configuration state is not updated on the vSphere HA agents on the hosts that  

    are part of the vSphere HA cluster. 

vCenter High Availability 

Restoring vCenter Server requires vCenter HA to be reconfigured. 

Storage Policy Based Management 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup can lead to the following inconsistencies related to  

storage policies, storage providers, and virtual machines. 

n    Registered storage providers after backup are lost. 

n    Unregistered storage providers after backup re-appear and might show different provider  

    status. 

n   Changes, such as create, delete, or update, performed on storage policies after backup are  

     lost. 

n   Changes, such as create, delete, or update, performed on storage policy components after  

     backup are lost. 

n    Default policy configuration changes for datastores performed after backup are lost. 

n   Changes in the storage policy association of the virtual machine and its disks, and in their  

     policy compliance might occur. 

Virtual Storage Area Network 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup might cause inconsistencies in the vSAN. For information  

on how to check vSAN health, see Administering VMware vSAN. 

Patching 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup might result in missing security patches. You must apply  

them again after the restore is complete. For information on patching the vCenter Server, see  

vSphere Upgrade . 

Schedule a File-Based Backup 

You can schedule file-based backups for vSphere 6.7 and later. You can set up a schedule that is  

used to perform periodic backups. 

The schedule can be set up with information about the backup location, recurrence, and  

retention for the backups. 

You can only set up one schedule at a time. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                           55 

----------------------- Page 56-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Prerequisites 

n    You must have a FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or SMB server up and running with  

     sufficient disk space to store the backup. 

Procedure 

1    In a Web browser, go to the vCenter Server Management Interface, https://appliance-IP- 
     address-or-FQDN:5480. 

 2   Log in as root. 

 3   In the vCenter Server Management Interface, click Backup. 

 4   Click Configure to set up a backup schedule. 

 5   Enter the backup location details. 

     Option                                    Description 

     Backup location                           Enter the backup location, including the protocol to use to connect to your  

                                               backup server, the port, the server address, and backup folder to store the  

                                               backup files. 

                                               Use one of the following protocols: FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or  

                                               SMB. 

                                               For FTP, FTPS, HTTP, or HTTPS the path is relative to the home directory  

                                               configured for the service. 

     Backup server credentials                 Enter a user name and password of a user with write privileges on the  

                                               backup server. 

       

 6   Set the schedule recurrence and time for the backup. 

     The recurrence can be set daily, weekly, or you can customize the schedule to run the  

     backup on a specific day or days of the week. You can specify the time of day to run the  

     backup. The default time is 11:59pm. 

 7   (Optional) Enter an Encryption Password if you want to encrypt your backup file. 

     If you select to encrypt the backup data, you must use the encryption password for the  

     restore procedure. 

 8   Select Retain all backups or enter the number of backups to retain. 

     The retention information provides the number of backups to retain for a given vCenter  

     Server. 

     Note   This policy applies to both manual and scheduled backups. 

 9   (Optional) Select Stats, Events, and Tasks to back up additional historical data from the  

     database. 

10   Click Create. 

     The backup schedule information is populated in the Backup page. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                          56 

----------------------- Page 57-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Results 

The complete and in progress backups are listed under Activity. 

What to do next 

You can perform an immediate backup with the existing schedule information by selecting Use  

backup location and user name from backup schedule from the backup schedule on the Backup  

Now dialog box. 

Manually Back Up vCenter Server by Using the vCenter  
Server Management Interface 

You can use the vCenter Server Management Interface to back up the vCenter Server instance.  

You can select whether to include historical data, such as stats, events, and tasks, in the backup  

file. 

Note   The backup operation for a vCenter High Availability cluster, backs up only the active  

node. 

Prerequisites 

n   You must have an FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or SMB server up and running with  

    sufficient disk space to store the backup. 

Procedure 

1    In a Web browser, go to the vCenter Server Management Interface, https://appliance-IP- 
    address-or-FQDN:5480. 

2    Log in as root. 

3    In the vCenter Server Management Interface, click Backup. 

    The table under Activity displays the most current backup version taken of the vCenter  

    Server. 

4    Click Backup Now. 

    The Backup Appliance wizard opens. 

5    (Optional) Select Use backup location and user name from backup schedule to use the  

     information from a scheduled backup. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               57 

----------------------- Page 58-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

6    Enter the backup location details. 

     Option                                     Description 

     Backup location                            Enter the backup location, including the protocol to use to connect to your  

                                                backup server, the port, the server address, and backup folder to store the  

                                                backup files. 

                                                Use one of the following protocols: FTP, FTPS, HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or  

                                                SMB. 

                                                For FTP, FTPS, HTTP, or HTTPS the path is relative to the home directory  

                                                configured for the service. 

     Backup server credentials                  Enter a user name and password of a user with write privileges on the  

                                                backup server. 

                                                Note   Username and password should only contain ASCII characters. 

       

7    (Optional) Enter an Encryption Password if you want to encrypt your backup file. 

     If you select to encrypt the backup data, you must use the encryption password for the  

     restore procedure. 

8    (Optional) Select Stats, Events, and Tasks to back up additional historical data from the  

     database. 

9    (Optional) In the Description text box, enter a description of the backup. 

10   Click Start to begin the backup process. 

Results 

The complete and in progress backups are listed under Activity. 

Restore vCenter Server from a File-Based Backup 

You can use the vCenter Server appliance GUI installer to restore a vCenter Server to an ESXi  

host or a vCenter Server instance. The restore procedure has two stages. The first stage deploys  

a new vCenter Server appliance. The second stage populates the newly deployed vCenter Server  

appliance with the data stored in the file-based backup. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                             58 

----------------------- Page 59-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Figure 3-1. vCenter Server Restore Workflow 

Prerequisites 

n    Verify that your system meets the minimum software and hardware requirements. See  

     System Requirements for the vCenter Server Appliance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                          59 

----------------------- Page 60-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

n    If the vCenter Server instance is part of a vCenter High Availability cluster, you must power  

     off the active, passive, and witness nodes of the cluster before restoring the vCenter Server. 

Procedure 

1    Stage 1 - Deploy a New Appliance 

     In stage 1 of the restore process, you deploy the OVA file, which is included in the vCenter  

     Server GUI installer. 

2    Stage 2 - Transfer Data to the Newly Deployed Appliance 

    After the OVA deployment finishes, you are redirected to stage 2 of the restore process in  

    which the data from the backup location is copied to the newly deployed vCenter Server  

     appliance. 

Stage 1 - Deploy a New Appliance 

In stage 1 of the restore process, you deploy the OVA file, which is included in the vCenter Server  

GUI installer. 

As an alternative to performing the first stage of the restore with the GUI installer, you can  

deploy the OVA file of the new vCenter Server appliance by using the vSphere Client. After the  

OVA deployment, you must log in to the vCenter Server Management Interface of the newly  

deployed appliance to proceed with the second stage of the restore process. See "Deploy  

an OVF or OVA Template" in vSphere Virtual Machine Administration vSphere Virtual Machine  

Administration for information about deploying an OVA file using the vSphere Client. 

Prerequisites 

n    Download and mount the vCenter Server installer. See Download and Mount the vCenter  

     Server Installer. 

     Note   If you are restoring a backup from a product that has a vCenter Server product patch  

     applied, you must download the full ISO of that particular patch. See Download VMware  

    vSphere. 

n    If you plan to restore the vCenter Server on an ESXi host, verify that the target ESXi host is  

     not in lockdown or maintenance mode or part of a fully-automated DRS cluster. 

n    If you plan to restore the vCenter Server on a DRS cluster of a vCenter Server inventory,  

    verify that the cluster contains at least one ESXi host that is not in lockdown or maintenance  

     mode. 

n    If you plan to assign a static IP address to the appliance, verify that you have configured the  

    forward and reverse DNS records for the IP address. 

n    If you are attempting to restore a vCenter Server instance that is still running, power off the  

     backed up vCenter Server before you start the restore operation. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               60 

----------------------- Page 61-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Procedure 

1    In the vCenter Server installer, navigate to the vcsa-ui-installer directory, go to the  

     subdirectory for your operating system, and run the installer executable file. 

     n    For Windows OS, go to the win32 subdirectory, and run the installer.exe file. 

     n    For Linux OS, go to the lin64 subdirectory, and run the installer file. 

     n    For Mac OS, go to the mac subdirectory, and run the  Installer.app file. 

2    On the Home page, click Restore. 

3    Review the Introduction page to understand the restore process and click Next. 

4    Read and accept the license agreement, and click Next. 

5    On the Enter backup details page, enter the details of the backup file that you want to  

     restore, and click Next. 

     Option                                     Description 

     Backup location                            Enter the server address and backup folder where the backup files are  

                                                stored. You can also enter the IP address or hostname of the backup server  

                                                and browse for the location of the backup folder. Specify the protocol to use  

                                                to retrieve the backup from your backup server. You can select FTP, FTPS,  

                                                HTTP, HTTPS, SFTP, NFS, or SMB. For example, 

                                                  ftp://<server_IP_address>/tmp/vCenter/ 
                                                  hostname_vcenter.com/<backup_filename> 

     User name                                  Enter the user name of a user with read privileges on the backup server. 

     Password                                   Enter the password of the user with read privileges on the backup server. 

       

6    Review the backup information, and click Next. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                             61 

----------------------- Page 62-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

7     Connect to the ESXi host or vCenter Server on which you want to deploy the vCenter Server  

      appliance to use for the restore operation. 

     Option                           Steps 

     You can connect to an            1   Enter the FQDN or IP address of the ESXi host. 

      ESXi host on which to           2   Enter the HTTPS port of the ESXi host. 

     deploy the appliance  
                                      3   Enter the user name and password of a user with administrative privileges on the  
     to use for the restore  
                                          ESXi host, for example, the root user. 
     operation. 
                                      4   Click Next. 

                                      5   Verify that the certificate warning displays the SHA1 thumbprint of the SSL certificate  

                                          that is installed on the target ESXi host, and click Yes to accept the certificate  

                                          thumbprint. 

     You can connect to               1   Enter the FQDN or IP address of the vCenter Server instance. 

     a vCenter Server                 2   Enter the HTTPS port of the vCenter Server instance. 

      instance and browse the  
                                      3   Enter the user name and password of user with vCenter Single Sign-On  
      inventory to select an  
                                          administrative privileges on the vCenter Server instance, for example, the  
      ESXi host or DRS cluster  
                                          administrator@your_domain_name user. 
     on which to deploy the  
                                      4   Click Next. 
     appliance to use for the  
                                      5   Verify that the certificate warning displays the SHA1 thumbprint of the SSL certificate  
      restore operation. 
                                          that is installed on the target vCenter Server instance, and click Yes to accept the  

                                          certificate thumbprint. 

                                      6   Select the data center or data center folder that contains the ESXi host or DRS  

                                          cluster on which you want to deploy the appliance, and click Next. 

                                          Note   You must select a data center or data center folder that contains at least one  

                                          ESXi host that is not in lockdown or maintenance mode. 

                                      7   Select the ESXi host or DRS cluster on which you want to deploy the appliance, and  

                                          click Next. 

8    Accept the certificate warning. 

9     Enter a name for the vCenter Server appliance, set up the password for the root user, and  

      click Next. 

10    Select the deployment size for the new vCenter Server appliance depending on the size of  

     your vSphere inventory. 

      Deployment Size Option                        Description 

     Tiny                                           Deploys an appliance with 2 vCPUs and 14 GB of memory. 

                                                    Suitable for environments with up to 10 hosts or 100 virtual machines 

     Small                                          Deploys an appliance with 4 vCPUs and 21 GB of memory. 

                                                    Suitable for environments with up to 100 hosts or 1,000 virtual machines 

      Medium                                        Deploys an appliance with 8 vCPUs and 30 GB of memory. 

                                                    Suitable for environments with up to 400 hosts or 4,000 virtual machines 

      Large                                         Deploys an appliance with 16 vCPUs and 39 GB of memory. 

                                                    Suitable for environments with up to 1,000 hosts or 10,000 virtual machines 

     X-Large                                        Deploys an appliance with 24 vCPUs and 58 GB of memory. 

                                                    Suitable for environments with up to 2,500 hosts or 45,000 virtual machines 

       

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                        62 

----------------------- Page 63-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

11   Select the storage size for the new vCenter Server appliance, and click Next. 

     Important   You must consider the storage size of the appliance that you are restoring. 

     Storage        Description for       Description          Description           Description          Description for X- 

     Size          Tiny Deployment        for Small            for Medium           for Large             Large Deployment  

     Option        Size                   Deployment Size      Deployment Size       Deployment Size      Size 

     Default        Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an  

                   appliance with 579     appliance with       appliance with       appliance with        appliance with  

                   GB of storage.         694 GB of            908 GB of            1358 GB of            2283 GB of  

                                          storage.             storage.             storage.              storage. 

     Large          Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an  

                   appliance with         appliance with       appliance with       appliance with        appliance with  

                   2019 GB of             2044 GB of           2208 GB of           2258 GB of            2383 GB of  

                   storage.               storage.             storage.             storage.              storage. 

     X-Large        Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an            Deploys an           Deploys an  

                   appliance with         appliance with       appliance with       appliance with        appliance with  

                   4279 GB of             4304 GB of           4468 GB of           4518 GB of            4643 GB of  

                   storage.               storage.             storage.             storage.              storage. 

12   From the list of available datastores, select the location where all the virtual machine  

     configuration files and virtual disks will be stored and, optionally, enable thin provisioning  

     by selecting Enable Thin Disk Mode. 

13   On the Configure network settings page review the settings populated from the backup file  

     of the vCenter Server. 

14   (Optional) Edit the network configuration to match the current network environment where  

     the vCenter Server is restored. 

15   On the Ready to complete stage 1 page, review the deployment settings for the restored  

     vCenter Server appliance and click Finish to start the OVA deployment process. 

16   Wait for the OVA deployment to finish, and click Continue to proceed with stage 2 of the  

     restore process to transfer the data to the newly deployed appliance. 

     Note   If you exit the wizard by clicking Close, you must log in to the vCenter Server  

     Management Interface to transfer the data. 

Results 

The newly deployed vCenter Server appliance is running on the target server but the data is not  

copied from the backup location. 

Stage 2 - Transfer Data to the Newly Deployed Appliance 

After the OVA deployment finishes, you are redirected to stage 2 of the restore process in which  

the data from the backup location is copied to the newly deployed vCenter Server appliance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                          63 

----------------------- Page 64-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Procedure 

1    Review the introduction to stage 2 of the restore process and click Next. 

2    Review the backup details and click Next. 

3    If you are restoring a node with enhanced linked mode support for vCenter Server appliance,  

     you are asked to provide the Single Sign-On credentials. Enter the Single Sign-On user name  

     and password, then click Validate and Recover. 

4    On the Ready to complete page, review the details, click Finish, and click OK to complete  

     stage 2 of the restore process. 

     The restore process restarts the vCenter Server Management Service. You cannot access the  

     vCenter Server Management API during the restart. 

     Important   If a restore operation of a vCenter Server appliance VM results with a failure, you  

     must power off and delete the partially restored VM. After that you can try to restore the VM  

     again. 

5    (Optional) After the restore process finishes, click the https:// 
    vcenter_server_appliance_fqdn/ui to go to the vSphere Client and log in to the vCenter  
     Server instance , or click the https://vcenter_server_appliance_fqdn :443 to go to the  

     vCenter Server Getting Started page. 

6    Click Close to exit the wizard. 

     You are redirected to the vCenter Server Getting Started page. 

7    If the backed up vCenter node is part of a vCenter High Availability cluster, the last needs to  

     be reconfigured after the restore operation completes successfully. 

     For information about how to perform backup and restore operations, see vSphere  
    Availability . 

What to do next 

After successful completion of the restore operation, in the event of a total loss of all storage and  

servers where all the physical hardware or the data in the hardware is lost, follow the instructions  

in the VMware knowledge base article at http://kb.vmware.com/kb/76585 in order to recover the  

system to a pre-restore state at the time of the backup. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                   64 

----------------------- Page 65-----------------------

Image-Based Backup and Restore  
of a vCenter Server Environment                                                                 4 

You can use vSphere APIs with a third-party product to back up and restore a virtual machine  

that contains vCenter Server. 

You can perform a full image backup of a virtual machine that contains vCenter Server. The  

virtual machine must use a fully qualified domain name (FQDN) with correct DNS resolution, or  

the hostname must be configured to be an IP address. 

Read the following topics next: 

n   Considerations and Limitations for Image-Based Backup and Restore  

n   Restore a vCenter Server Image-based Environment 

Considerations and Limitations for Image-Based Backup and  
Restore 

When you restore a vCenter Server environment, take into account these considerations and  

limitations. 

Note   Restoring a vCenter Server instance with DHCP network configuration results in changing  

its IP address. The changed IP address prevents some vCenter Server services from starting  

properly. To start all vCenter Server services successfully, after the restore, you must reconfigure  

the IP address of the restored vCenter Server instance to the IP address that the instance was set  

to when you performed the backup. 

Synchronizing Clocks with NTP Time Synchronization Prior to Backup 

Before creating a backup of your vCenter Server deployment, verify that all components  

on the vSphere network have their clocks synchronized using NTP time synchronization. See  

Synchronizing Clocks on the vSphere Network. 

Configuration 

After a restore, the following configurations revert to the state when the backup was taken. 

n   Virtual machine resource settings 

n   Resource pool hierarchy and setting 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                    65 

----------------------- Page 66-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

n   Cluster-host membership 

n   DRS configuration and rules 

Storage DRS 

If the configuration changes, the following might change after a restore. 

n   Datastore Cluster configuration 

n   Datastore Cluster membership 

n   Datastore I/O Resource Management (Storage I/O Control) settings 

n   Datastore-Datacenter membership 

n   Host-Datastore membership 

Distributed Power Management 

If you put a host into standby mode after a backup, the vCenter Server might force the host to  

exit standby mode when you restore to the backup. 

Distributed Virtual Switch 

If you use a distributed virtual switch, you are advised to export separately the distributed virtual  

switch configuration before you restore to a backup. You can import the configuration after the  

restore. If you omit this consideration, you may lose the changes made to a distributed virtual  

switch after the backup. For detailed steps, see the VMware Knowledge Base article at http:// 

kb.vmware.com/kb/2034602. 

Content Libraries 

If you delete libraries or items after a backup, you cannot access or use these libraries or items  

after the restore. You can only delete such libraries or items. A warning message notifies you that  

there are missing files or folders in the storage backup. 

If you create new items or item files after the backup, the Content Library Service has no record  

of the new items or files after the restore operation. A warning notifies you that extra folders or  

files were found on the storage backup. 

If you create new libraries after the backup, the Content Library Service has no record of the  

new libraries after restore. The library content exists on the storage backing, but no warning is  

displayed. You must manually clean the new libraries. 

Virtual Machine Life Cycle Operations 

n   Restoring vCenter Server from a backup that was taken while there are in-flight relocation  

    operations within the vCenter Server instance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                          66 

----------------------- Page 67-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     After you restore vCenter Server, the vCenter Server view of the virtual machines may be  

     out of sync with the ESXi view of the virtual machines. This is also true if you performed the  

     backup while there were in-flight operations on vCenter Server. If virtual machines disappear  

     after you restore vCenter Server, you can refer to the following cases. 

     a   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host and is registered with  

         the destination ESXi host, but it is not in the vCenter Server inventory. You must manually  

         add the virtual machine to the vCenter Server inventory. 

     b   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host, but it is not registered  

         with the destination ESXi host and it is not in the vCenter Server inventory. You must  

         manually register the virtual machine to the ESXi and add the virtual machine back to the  

         vCenter Server inventory. 

     c   The missing virtual machine is located on the destination ESXi host, but it is not registered  

         with the destination ESXi host. Within the vCenter Server instance, the missing virtual  

         machine is marked as orphaned. You must remove the virtual machine from the vCenter  

         Server inventory and add it again. 

n    Restoring vCenter Server from a backup that has an out of date linked clone virtual machine  

     layout. 

     If you create a linked clone virtual machine after the backup and you restore vCenter  

     Server from the old backup, then after the restore, vCenter Server does not know about  

     the new linked clone virtual machine until vCenter Server discovers the new linked clone  

     virtual machine. If you remove all existing virtual machines before the new linked clone virtual  

     machine is discovered, then the removal of existing virtual machines corrupts the new linked  

     clone due to missing disks. To avoid this corruption, you must wait until all linked clone virtual  

     machines get discovered by the vCenter Server before you remove virtual machines. 

vSphere High Availability 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup may cause it to roll back to older version for the  

vSphere HA cluster state (HostList, ClusterConfiguration, VM protection state) while the hosts  

in the cluster have the latest version for the cluster state. Ensure that the vSphere HA cluster  

state stays the same during restore and backup operations. Otherwise, the following potential  

problems are present. 

n    If hosts are added or removed to/from the vSphere HA cluster after backup and before  

     vCenter Server restore, virtual machines could potentially fail over to hosts not managed by  

     the vCenter Server but are still part of the HA cluster. 

n    Protection states for new virtual machines are not updated on the vSphere HA agents on  

     the hosts which are part of the vSphere HA cluster. As a result, virtual machines are not  

     protected/unprotected. 

n    New cluster configuration state is not updated on the vSphere HA agents on the hosts which  

     are part of the vSphere HA cluster. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                 67 

----------------------- Page 68-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

vCenter High Availability 

Restoring vCenter Server requires vCenter HA to be reconfigured. 

Storage Policy Based Management 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup can lead to the following inconsistencies related to  

storage policies, storage providers, and virtual machines. 

n   Registered storage providers after backup are lost. 

n   Unregistered storage providers after backup reappear and might show different provider  

    status. 

n   Changes, such as create, delete, or update, performed on storage policies after backup are  

    lost. 

n   Changes, such as create, delete, or update, performed on storage policy components after  

    backup are lost. 

n   Default policy configuration changes for datastores performed after backup are lost. 

n   Changes in the storage policy association of the virtual machine and its disks, and in their  

    policy compliance might occur. 

Virtual Storage Area Network 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup may cause inconsistencies in the vSAN. For information  

how to check vSAN health, see Administering VMware vSAN. 

Patching 

Restoring vCenter Server from a backup might result in missing security patches. You must  

apply them again after the restore is complete. For information on patching the vCenter Server  

appliance, see vSphere Upgrade . 

Restore a vCenter Server Image-based Environment 

You can use a third-party product that uses vSphere APIs to restore a virtual machine that  

contains vCenter Server. 

You can perform an image-based restore of a virtual machine that contains vCenter Server. The  

virtual machine must use a fully qualified domain name (FQDN) with correct DNS resolution, or  

the host name of the machine must be configured to be an IP address. 

You can restore a virtual machine to the original location by either overwriting the backed up  

virtual machine or by creating a new virtual machine that contains the restored vCenter Server on  

the same ESXi host. You can also restore the virtual machine on a new ESXi host. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                            68 

----------------------- Page 69-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

You can restore a virtual machine that contains vCenter Server directly on the ESXi host that is  

running the third-party appliance when the vCenter Server service becomes unavailable or when  

you cannot access the third-party user interface by using the vSphere Client. 

Important   Restoring virtual machines that have snapshots or that are configured with Fault  

Tolerance is unsupported. 

Figure 4-1. vCenter Server Restore Workflow 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                       69 

----------------------- Page 70-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Restore a vCenter Server Instance 

You can use a third-party product to restore a vCenter Server environment. 

Important   You can back up and restore only virtual machines that contain vCenter Server  

instances. You cannot back up and restore physical machines that are running vCenter Server by  

using a third-party product. 

Procedure 

1    Restore the vCenter Server virtual machine onto the ESXi host using a third-party solution. 

2    Use the service-control --status --all command to verify that the services have  

    started. 

    Wait for all the vCenter Server services to start, which can take several minutes. 

3    Launch the vCenter Server Management Interface, https://appliance-IP-address-or- 
     FQDN:5480. 

4   When you launch the vCenter Server Management Interface, based on the change in the  

    vCenter Server appliance data you will see one of the following: 

    a    If there is a change in the vCenter Server appliance data that needs to be synchronized,  

         reconciliation window will be displayed. Follow the prompts to complete the reconcilation  

         and then provide the Single Sign-On credentials to log into the vCenter Server  

         Management Interface. 

     b   If there is no change in the vCenter Server appliance data, the vCenter Server  

         Management Interface login screen will be displayed. 

What to do next 

Power on the restored virtual machine that contains the restored vCenter Server instance. 

Restore a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode Environment 

You can restore a vCenter Enhanced Linked Mode environment using a third-party solution. 

Important   You can back up and restore only virtual machines that contain vCenter Server  

instances. You cannot back up and restore physical machines that are running vCenter Server by  

using a third-party product. 

Procedure 

1    Restore the vCenter Server virtual machine onto the ESXi host using a third-party solution. 

    The services are masked and are not yet running. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                              70 

----------------------- Page 71-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

 2   Use the systemctl status applmgmt command to verify that the  systemd instance of the  

     applmgmt service has started. 

     Wait for all the vCenter Server services to start, which can take several minutes. 

 3   Log into the vCenter Server Management Interface, https://appliance-IP-address-or- 
     FQDN:5480. 

What to do next 

Power on the restored virtual machine that contains the restored vCenter Server instance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                     71 

----------------------- Page 72-----------------------

After You Deploy the vCenter  
Server Appliance                                                                                    5 

After you deploy the vCenter Server appliance, consider these post installation options before  

adding inventory for the vCenter Server to manage. 

If you plan to install Windows 11 as a guest operating system on a virtual machine, you must  

configure a key provider. Installing Windows 11 requires a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) 2.0.  

When installing Windows 11 as a guest operating system on a virtual machine, instead of using a  

physical TPM, you can use a virtual Trusted Platform Module (vTPM). A vTPM is a software-based  

representation of a physical TPM 2.0 chip. A vTPM depends on virtual machine encryption to  

secure vital TPM data, and so requires that you configure a key provider. For information about  

the key providers supported by vSphere, see the Virtual Machine Encryption chapter in the  
                                                                                             ® 
vSphere Security documentation. The easiest way is to configure a VMware vSphere                Native  
Key Provider™. vSphere Native Key Provider is included in all vSphere editions and does not  

require an external key server. For information about configuring a vSphere Native Key Provider,  

see Configuring and Managing vSphere Native Key Provider chapter in the vSphere Security  

documentation. As with all security solutions, consider the system design, implementation  

considerations, and tradeoffs of using vSphere Native Key Provider. 

For information about configuring the vSphere Authentication Proxy service, see vSphere  
Security. 

For information about upgrading vCenter Server, see vCenter Server Upgrade . 

Read the following topics next: 

n   How to Log in to Your vCenter Server by Using the vSphere Client 

n   Install the VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in 

n   Repoint vCenter Server to Another vCenter Server in a Different Domain 

How to Log in to Your vCenter Server by Using the vSphere  
Client 

Learn how to use the vSphere Client to log in to vCenter Server and manage your vSphere  

inventory. 

Тhe vSphere Client is automatically installed as part of the vCenter Server appliance deployment.  

This way, the vSphere Client always points to the same vCenter Single Sign-On instance. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                        72 

----------------------- Page 73-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Procedure 

1    Open a Web browser and enter the URL for your vCenter Server instance: https:// 

     vcenter_server_ip_address_or_fqdn 

     As an alternative, you can open a Web browser and enter the URL for the vSphere Client:  
     https://vcenter_server_ip_address_or_fqdn/ui. 

2    If a warning message about a potential security risk appears, select to continue to the  

     website. 

     Browser                                 Action 

     Microsoft Edge                          a   Click Details. 

                                             b   Under the additional message that appears, click Go on to the webpage. 

     Mozilla Firefox                         a   Click Advanced. 

                                             b   Under the additional message that appears, click Accept the Risk and  

                                                 Continue. 

     Google Chrome                           a   Click Advanced. 

                                             b   Under the additional message that appears, click Proceed to  

                                                 vcenter_server_ip_address_or_fqdn . 

       

3    On the vSphere Welcome page, select Launch vSphere Client (HTML5). 

4    If the warning message about a potential security risk appears again, repeat Step 2. 

5    Enter the credentials of a user who has permissions on vCenter Server and click Login. 

Results 

The vSphere Client connects to all the vCenter Server systems on which the specified user has  

permissions, and you can view and manage the vSphere inventory. 

Install the VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in 

The VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in provides Integrated Windows Authentication and  

Windows-based smart card functionality. 

In the vSphere 6.5 release, the VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in replaced the Client  

Integration Plug-in from vSphere 6.0 releases and earlier. The Enhanced Authentication Plug- 

in provides Integrated Windows Authentication and Windows-based smart card functionality.  

These are the only two features carried over from the previous Client Integration Plug-in.  

The Enhanced Authentication Plug-in can function seamlessly if you already have the Client  

Integration Plug-in installed on your system from vSphere 6.0 or earlier. There are no conflicts if  

both plug-ins are installed. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                      73 

----------------------- Page 74-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Install the plug-in only once to enable all the functionality the plug-in delivers. 

Note   When you enable Active Directory Federation Services, Enhanced Authentication Plug-in  

applies only to configurations where vCenter Server is the identity provider (Active Directory  

over LDAP, Integrated Windows Authentication, and OpenLDAP configurations). 

Procedure 

1   Open a Web browser and type the URL for the vSphere Client. 

2   At the bottom of the vSphere Client login page, click Download Enhanced Authentication  

     Plug-in. 

     Note   The Enhanced Authentication Plug-in has been deprecated in vSphere 7.0 Update 2  

    and there is only one version available for download. 

3    If the browser blocks the installation either by issuing certificate errors or by running a pop- 

     up blocker, follow the Help instructions for your browser to resolve the problem. 

4   Save the plug-in to your computer, and run the executable. 

5   Step through the installation wizard for both the VMware Enhanced Authentication Plug-in  

    and the VMware Plug-in Service which are run in succession. 

6   When the installations are complete, refresh your browser. 

7   On the External Protocol Request dialog box, click Launch Application to run the Enhanced  

    Authentication Plug-in. 

    The link to download the plug-in disappears from the login page. 

Repoint vCenter Server to Another vCenter Server in a  
Different Domain 

You can move a vCenter Server from one vSphere domain to another vSphere domain. Services  

such as tagging and licensing are retained and migrated to the new domain. 

The following use cases are supported: 

n   You can migrate a vCenter Server from an existing domain to an another existing domain  

    with or without replication. The migrated vCenter Server moves from its current Single Sign- 

    On domain and joins the other existing domain as another vCenter Server connected via  

    enhanced linked mode. 

    n    See Repoint a Single vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain without a Replication  

         Partner for instructions on repointing a single embedded node from one domain to an  

         existing domain without a replication partner. 

    n    See Repoint a vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain with a Replication Partner for  

         instructions on repointing an embedded node from one domain to an existing domain  

         using replication. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                              74 

----------------------- Page 75-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

n    You can migrate a vCenter Server from an existing domain to a newly created domain (where  

     the migrated vCenter Server is the first instance). See Repoint a vCenter Server Node to a  

     New Domain for instructions of this type of repointing. In this case, there is no replication  

     partner. 

Repoint a Single vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain without  
a Replication Partner 

You can repoint a single vCenter Server from one Single Sign-On domain to an existing Single  

Sign-On domain without a replication partner. Each Single Sign-On domain contains a single  

vCenter Server. 

See Figure 5-1. Repointing a Single vCenter Server from One Domain to an Existing Domain for  

an example of repointing a single vCenter Server from one domain to another existing domain.  

This is one of many ways to create an Enhanced Linked Mode node. In this case, there is no  

replication. 

Figure 5-1. Repointing a Single vCenter Server from One Domain to an Existing Domain 

  Before repointing 

        Node A                              Node B 

        vCenter                            vCenter  
         Server                             Server 

     Domain1.local                      Domain2.local 

  After repointing 

        Node A                              Node B 

        vCenter                            vCenter  
         Server                             Server 

                       Domain2.local 

             Represents vCenter Server nodes 
             connected by linked mode 

Prerequisites 

n    Repointing is only supported with vCenter Server 6.7 Update 1 and later. 

n    You must repoint to a vCenter Server that is of the same version. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                          75 

----------------------- Page 76-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

n    To ensure no loss of data, take a file-based backup of each node before proceeding with  

     repointing the vCenter Server. 

Procedure 

1    Make sure that both vCenter Server nodes are powered on before beginning the repointing  

     process. 

2    (Optional) Run the pre-check mode command. The pre-check mode fetches the tagging  

     (tags and categories) and authorization (roles and privileges) data from the vCenter Server.  

     Pre-check does not migrate any data, but checks for conflicts between the source and  

     destination vCenter Server. For example, run the pre-check with the following CLI: 

      cmsso-util domain-repoint -m pre-check --src-emb-admin Administrator --replication-partner- 

      fqdn FQDN_of_destination_node --replication-partner-admin PSC_Admin_of_destination_node -- 

      dest-domain-name destination_PSC_domain 

     Note   Pre-check is not required if a replication partner does not exist (repointing to a newly  

     created domain). 

     See Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command for argument definitions for the cmsso-util  

     domain-repoint command. 

     The pre-check writes the conflicts to the /storage/domain-data directory. 

3    (Optional) Review the conflicts and apply resolutions for all conflicts, or apply a separate  

     resolution for each conflict. 

     The conflict resolutions are: 

     n   Copy: Create a duplicate copy of the data in the target domain. 

     n   Skip: Skips copying the data in the target domain. 

     n   Merge: Merges the conflict without creating duplicates. 

     Note   The default resolution mode for Tags and Authorization conflicts is Copy, unless  

     overridden in the conflict files generated during pre-check. 

4    Run the execute command. In execute mode, the data generated during the pre-check mode  

     is read and imported to the target node. Then, the vCenter Server is repointed to the target  
     domain. For example, repointing without a replication partner, run the execute command  

    with the following: 

      cmsso-util domain-repoint -m execute --src-emb-admin Administrator --replication-partner- 

      fqdn FQDN_of_destination_node --replication-partner-admin PSC_Admin_of_destination_node -- 

      dest-domain-name destination_PSC_domain 

     See Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command for argument definitions for the cmsso-util  

     domain-repoint command. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                               76 

----------------------- Page 77-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Repoint a vCenter Server Node to an Existing Domain with a  
Replication Partner 

You can repoint a vCenter Server from one Single Sign-On domain to an existing domain using a  

replication partner. 

See Figure 5-2. Repointing a vCenter Server from One Domain to an Existing Domain for an  

example of repointing to an existing domain. In this case, there is replication. 

Figure 5-2. Repointing a vCenter Server from One Domain to an Existing Domain 

   Before repointing 

         Node A                    Node B                   Node C                 Node D 

         vCenter                  vCenter                   vCenter                vCenter  
         Server                    Server                    Server                Server 

                                Domain1.local                                   Domain2.local 

   After repointing 

         Node A                    Node B                Node C                    Node D 

         vCenter                  vCenter                vCenter                  vCenter  
         Server                    Server                Server                    Server 

                   Domain1.local                                   Domain2.local 

             Represents vCenter Server nodes connected by linked mode 

Prerequisites 

n    Repointing is only supported with vCenter Server 6.7 Update 1 and later. 

n    You must repoint to a vCenter Server that is of the same version. 

n    To ensure no loss of data, take a file-based backup of each node before proceeding with  

     repointing the vCenter Server. 

Procedure 

1    Shut down the node (for example, Node C) that is being repointed (moved to a different  

     domain). 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                           77 

----------------------- Page 78-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

2    Decommission the vCenter Server node that is being repointed. For example, to  

     decommission Node C, log into Node B (on the original domain) and run the following  

     command: 

      cmsso-util unregister --node-pnid Node_C_FQDN --username  

      Node_B_sso_administrator@sso_domain.com --passwd Node_B_sso_adminuser_password 

    After unregistering Node C, services are restarted. References to Node C are deleted from  

     Node B and any other nodes that were linked with Node C on the original domain. 

3    Power on Node C to begin the repointing process. 

4    (Optional) Run the pre-check mode command. The pre-check mode fetches the tagging  

     (tags and categories) and authorization (roles and privileges) data from the vCenter Server.  

     Pre-check does not migrate any data, but checks the conflicts between the source and  

     destination vCenter Server. For example, run the pre-check with the following CLI: 

      cmsso-util domain-repoint -m pre-check --src-emb-admin Administrator --replication-partner- 

      fqdn FQDN_of_destination_node --replication-partner-admin PSC_Admin_of_destination_node -- 

      dest-domain-name destination_PSC_domain 

     Note   Pre-check is not required if a replication partner does not exist (repointing to a newly  

     created domain). 

     See Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command for argument definitions for the cmsso-util  

     domain-repoint command. 

     The pre-check writes the conflicts to the /storage/domain-data directory. 

5    (Optional) Check conflicts and apply resolutions for all conflicts or apply a separate resolution  

    for each conflict. 

     The conflict resolutions are: 

     n   Copy: Create a duplicate copy of the data in the target domain. 

     n   Skip: Skips copying the data in the target domain. 

     n   Merge: Merges the conflict without creating duplicates. 

     Note   The default resolution mode for Tags and Authorization conflicts is Copy, unless  

     overridden in the conflict files generated during pre-check. 

6    Run the execute command. In execute mode, the data generated during the pre-check mode  

     is read and imported to the target node. Then, the vCenter Server is repointed to the target  

     domain. For example, run the execute command with the following: 

      cmsso-util domain-repoint -m execute --src-emb-admin Administrator -- 

      replication-partner-fqdn FQDN _of_destination_node --replication-partner-admin  

      destination_node_PSC_Admin_user_name --dest-domain-name destination_PSC_domain 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                78 

----------------------- Page 79-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

     See Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command for argument definitions for the cmsso-util  

     domain-repoint command. 

Repoint a vCenter Server Node to a New Domain 

You can repoint a vCenter Server from an existing domain to a newly created domain. 

See Figure 5-3. Repointing a vCenter Server from One Domain to a New Domain for an example  

of repointing to a new domain. In this case, there is no replication partner. 

Figure 5-3. Repointing a vCenter Server from One Domain to a New Domain 

  Before repointing 

         Node A                    Node B                   Node C 

         vCenter                  vCenter                   vCenter  
         Server                    Server                    Server 

                               Domain1.local 

  After repointing 

         Node A                    Node B                   Node C 

         vCenter                  vCenter                   vCenter  
         Server                    Server                    Server 

                   Domain1.local                         Domain2.local 

             Represents vCenter Server nodes 
            connected by linked mode 

Prerequisites 

n    Repointing is only supported with vCenter Server 6.7 Update 1 and later. 

n    You must repoint to a vCenter Server that is of the same version. 

n    To ensure no loss of data, take a file-based backup and a snapshot in powered-off state of  

     each node before proceeding with repointing the vCenter Server. 

Procedure 

1    Shut down the node (for example, Node C) that is being repointed (moved to a different  

     domain). 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                           79 

----------------------- Page 80-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

2    Decommission the vCenter Server node that is being repointed. For example, to  

     decommission Node C, log into Node B (on the original domain) and run the following  

     command: 

      cmsso-util unregister --node-pnid Node_C_FQDN --username  

      Node_B_sso_administrator@sso_domain.com --passwd Node_B_sso_adminuser_password 

     After unregistering Node C, services are restarted. References to Node C are deleted from  

     Node B and any other nodes that were linked with Node C on the original domain. 

3    Power on Node C to begin the repointing process. 

4    Run the execute command. In execute mode, the data generated during the pre-check mode  

     is read and imported to the target node. Then, the vCenter Server is repointed to the target  

     domain. For example, repointing with no replication partner (repointing to a new domain), run  

     the execute command with the following: 

      cmsso-util domain-repoint -m execute --src-emb-admin Administrator  --dest-domain-name  

      destination_PSC_domain 

     See Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command for argument definitions for the cmsso-util  

     domain-repoint command. 

Syntax of the Domain Repoint Command 

You can use command arguments to set the execution parameters of the domain-repoint  

command. 

The cmsso-util domain-repoint CLI repoints vCenter Server from one domain to another. 

You can add a space-separated list of arguments to the CLI repoint command 

Use the following command to repoint a vCenter Server to another vCenter Server node: 

  cmsso-util domain-repoint -m execute --src-emb-admin Administrator --replication-partner-fqdn  

  FQDN _of_destination_node --replication-partner-admin destination_node_PSC_Admin_user_name -- 

  dest-domain-name destination_PSC_domain 

 Argument                                                   Description 

 -m, --mode                                                 mode can be pre-check or execute. The pre-check  

                                                            argument runs the command in pre-check mode. The  

                                                            execute argument runs the command in execute mode. 

 -spa, --src-psc-admin                                      SSO administrator user name for the source vCenter  

                                                            Server. Do not append the @domain. 

 -dpf, --dest-psc-fqdn                                      The FQDN of the vCenter Server to repoint. 

 -dpa, --dest-psc-admin                                     SSO administrator user name for the destination vCenter  

                                                            Server. Do not append @domain. 

 -ddn, --dest-domain-name                                   SSO domain name of the destination vCenter Server. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                80 

----------------------- Page 81-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

 Argument                                                           Description 

  -dpr, --dest-psc-rhttps                                           (Optional) HTTPS port for the destination vCenter Server.  

                                                                    If not set, the default 443 is used. 

  -dvf, --dest-vc-fqdn                                              The FQDN of the vCenter Server pointing to a destination  

                                                                    vCenter Server. The vCenter Server is used to check for  

                                                                    component data conflicts in the pre-check mode. If not  

                                                                    provided, conflict checks are skipped and the default  

                                                                    resolution (COPY) is applied for any conflicts found during  

                                                                    the import process. 

                                                                    Note   This argument is optional only if the destination  

                                                                    domain does not have a vCenter Server. If a vCenter  

                                                                    Server exists in the destination domain, this argument is  

                                                                    mandatory. 

  -sea, --src-emb-admin                                             Administrator for the vCenter Server with embedded  

                                                                    vCenter Server. Do not append @domain to the  

                                                                    administrator id. 

  -rpf, --replication-partner-fqdn                                  (Optional) The FQDN of the replication partner node to  

                                                                    which the vCenter Server is replicated. 

  -rpr, --replication-partner-rhttps                                (Optional) The HTTPS port for the replication node. If not  

                                                                    set, the default is 443. 

  -rpa, --replication-partner-admin                                 (Optional) SSO administrator user name of the replication  

                                                                    partner vCenter Server. 

  -dvr, --dest-vc-rhttps                                            (Optional) The HTTPS port for the vCenter Server pointing  

                                                                    to the destination vCenter Server. If not set, the default  

                                                                    443 is used. 

  --ignore-snapshot                                                 (Optional) Ignore snapshot warnings. 

  --no-check-certs                                                  (Optional) Ignore certification validations. 

  --debug                                                           (Optional) Retrieves command execution detail. 

  -h, --help                                                        (Optional) Displays the help message for the cmsso-util  

                                                                    domain repoint command. 

Understanding Tagging and Authorization Conflicts 

When you run the domain repoint command in pre-check mode, data from the vCenter Server is  

exported, examined, and conflicts are written to a file. 

The following data is exported to the /storage/domain-data/ or ProgramData/VMWare/ 

vCenterServerdata/domain-data folder: 

n    All_Privileges.json 

n    All_Roles.json 

n    All_TagCategories.json 

n    All_Tags.json 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                 81 

----------------------- Page 82-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

These files contain the all the data (Authorization and Tagging) from the vCenter Server on which  

this command was run. 

If a secondary vCenter Server is provided using the -dvf or --dest-vc-fqdn option, any  

conflicts are also exported to the same folder: 

n    Conflicts_Roles.json  

n    Conflicts_TagCategories.json 

n    Conflicts_Tags.json 

The following is a sample conflicts file: 

  <---- Sample Conflict file code block ---> 

      { 

   "global" : { 

     "resolution" : "MERGE|SKIP|COPY", 

     "description" : "Default resolution option used to resolve Role Conflicts is COPY. The  

  conflicts list describes the differences between Role entities on source and target vCenter  

  Server. If  

  the source information represents an empty JSON array, it simply means that all the entity  

  attributes from source and target are identical. If the source lists few entries, it means  

  that only these entity attributes are missing from the target. If the target lists few  

  entries,  

  it means that only these entity attributes are missing from the source. Though a global  

  resolution  

  can be set, it can also be overridden at each conflict level by providing individual  

  resolution  

 mode." 

   }, 

   "conflicts-count" : 1, 

   "conflicts-list" : { 

     "NoCryptoAdmin" : { 

       "source" : { 

         "privileges" : "[]" 

       }, 

       "target" : { 

         "privileges" : "[Group-1.SamplePriv-1, Group-1.SamplePriv-4, Group-2.SamplePriv-10,  

  Group-2.SamplePriv-3, Group-2.SamplePriv-7, Group-3.SamplePriv-2, Group-3.SamplePriv-9]" 

       }, 

       "resolution" : "" 

     } 

  } 

  <----- End of code block ---> 

The parts of the sample conflict files are: 

n    description. Provides the details on how the respective conflicts file is read and understood. 

n    source and target. JSON objects that list only the differences between the source and target  

    vCenter Server objects. 

n    resolution. User supplies one valid resolution. Valid resolutions are MERGE, COPY, and SKIP. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                82 

----------------------- Page 83-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

To specify the resolution for handling conflicts, you can provide a default resolution option all  

conflicts in the "global": "resolution" = "MERGE|SKIP|COPY" section. If you do not provide a  

valid global resolution type for resolution or leave it unedited, the system uses COPY as the  

default resolution option. 

You can also provide a valid resolution option for each of the conflicts by editing the resolution  

property at each conflict level which overrides the global resolution option. 

The types of conflicts listed in Table 5-1. Conflict Types. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                           83 

----------------------- Page 84-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 5-1. Conflict Types 

                       Properties used to  

                       compare Category                                          Conflicting  

  Conflict             Objects                        Conflict Types             Properties            Conflict Resolution Options 

  Role conflict        n   name: Name of the          RoleName conflict          Properties that       n    COPY. A copy of the  

                           category.                  occurs while               can be                     conflicting role is created in  

                       n   privilegeId: List of       importing roles and        conflicting for            the target vCenter Server,  

                           privileges for the         a role with the            RoleName conflict          with –-copy appended to  

                           role.                      same name exists in        type can be                the role name. The new  

                                                      the target vCenter         Privileges.                role is created with a new  

                                                      Server but with                                       role ID with the same set  

                                                      different privileges.                                 of privilege IDs. The new  

                                                                                                            role ID is updated in the  

                                                                                                           VPX_ACCESS table. The new  

                                                                                                            role ID is applicable for  

                                                                                                            both role name conflict and  

                                                                                                            role ID conflict. 

                                                                                                            Note   

                                                                                                            The default resolution  

                                                                                                            option to resolve Role  

                                                                                                            conflicts is COPY. 

                                                                                                       n   MERGE.The MERGE option is  

                                                                                                            resolved in the following  

                                                                                                            sequence: 

                                                                                                            a   If the source vCenter  

                                                                                                                Server has a role with  

                                                                                                                the same name and  

                                                                                                                privilege list as a role  

                                                                                                                in the target vCenter  

                                                                                                                Server, but the role  

                                                                                                                IDs are different, the  

                                                                                                                role ID from the target  

                                                                                                                vCenter Server is used  

                                                                                                                and updated in the  

                                                                                                                VPX_ACCESS table. 

                                                                                                            b   If the source vCenter  

                                                                                                                Server has a role  

                                                                                                                with the same name  

                                                                                                                as a role in the  

                                                                                                                target vCenter Server,  

                                                                                                                but with a different  

                                                                                                                privilege list, then the  

                                                                                                                privilege lists for both  

                                                                                                                roles are merged. 

                                                                                                       n    SKIP. Do nothing. The  

                                                                                                            specific role is skipped. 

  Tag Category         n   name: Name of the          Only one type of           Properties that       n    COPY. A copy of the  

  conflict: A              category.                  conflict can be seen       can be                     conflicting category is  

  category name                                       while importing Tag        conflicting for            created in the target  

  must be unique                                      Categories,                conflict type             vCenter Server, with –-copy  
                                                      CategoryName               CategoryName               appended to the category  

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                        84 

----------------------- Page 85-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 5-1. Conflict Types (continued) 

                       Properties used to  

                       compare Category                                            Conflicting  

  Conflict             Objects                          Conflict Types             Properties             Conflict Resolution Options 

  in a vCenter         n    cardinality:                conflict. This             can be at least             name. The new category  

  Server.                   Cardinality of              conflict indicates         one of two                  is created with the same  

                            Category, either            that a category with       types:                      property name as in the  

                            Single or Multiple.         the same name              Cardinality or              source vCenter Server. All  

                       n    associableEntityTy          exists in the target       AssociableTypes             the tags that were present  

                            pe: List of vCenter         vCenter Server but         .                           under this category is  

                            Server object that          with different                                         imported under the newly  

                            can be associated           properties                                             created CategoryCopy. 

                            with a tag from this        (cardinality or                                        Note   

                            category. A value of        associableEntityT 

                            All indicates all           ype).                                                  The default resolution  

                            vCenter Server                                                                     option to resolve  

                            objects.                                                                           CategoryName conflicts is  

                                                                                                               COPY. 

                                                                                                          n    MERGE. Conflicting  

                                                                                                               properties are merged  

                                                                                                               with the category that is  

                                                                                                               already present in the SSO.  

                                                                                                               Properties are merged as  

                                                                                                               follows: 

                                                                                                               a   Description. The  

                                                                                                                   description that is  

                                                                                                                   already present is used. 

                                                                                                               b   Cardinality.  

                                                                                                                   Cardinality cannot  

                                                                                                                   shrink. If there is a  

                                                                                                                   cardinality conflict, the  

                                                                                                                   cardinality is set to  

                                                                                                                   multiple. It cannot be  

                                                                                                                   reduced to single. 

                                                                                                               c   AssociableTypes.If  

                                                                                                                   either the  

                                                                                                                   associableEntityType  

                                                                                                                   values are null, it is  

                                                                                                                   set to null. Otherwise,  

                                                                                                                   Objects types are  

                                                                                                                   merged. 

                                                                                                          n    SKIP. Do nothing. All tags  

                                                                                                               are imported under the  

                                                                                                               category that exists. 

  Tags Conflict:       n    name                        Only one type of           Properties that        n    COPY. A copy of the  

  A tag object         n    description                 conflict can be seen       can be                      conflicting tag is created in  
  always belongs                                        while importing            conflicting for a           the target vCenter Server,  

  to a category                                         tags: TagName              conflict of type:           with –-copy appended to  

  Object. A tag                                         conflict. This             TagName can be              the tag name. Take the  

  Name must be                                          conflict indicates         Description. 

  unique only                                           that a Tag with the  

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                            85 

----------------------- Page 86-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

Table 5-1. Conflict Types (continued) 

                     Properties used to  

                     compare Category                                      Conflicting  

 Conflict            Objects                       Conflict Types           Properties           Conflict Resolution Options 

  inside a                                         same name exists                                  MoRef(Internal tag ID) of  

 category.                                         under the same                                    the newly created tag and  

                                                   category and in                                   update the tag association  

                                                   the target vCenter                                if necessary. 

                                                   Server but with  
                                                                                                     Note   
                                                   different properties. 

                                                                                                     The default resolution  

                                                                                                     option to resolve  

                                                                                                     CategoryName conflicts is  

                                                                                                     COPY. 

                                                                                                 n   MERGE.Keep the existing  

                                                                                                     description. Take the  

                                                                                                     MoRef(Internal Tag ID) and  

                                                                                                     update one or more Tag  

                                                                                                     Associations if necessary. 

                                                                                                 n   SKIP. Do nothing. Do not  

                                                                                                     create this tag. Clean up  

                                                                                                     any Tag Associations. 

vCenter Server Domain Repoint License Considerations 

Domain repointing copies license keys to a new domain. Copying the license keys ensures that  

valid licensing of all assets is maintained after repointing. 

vCenter Server tracks license usage on a per domain basis. If a key is used in more than one  

domain, you must ensure that the aggregate use of the key does not exceed its capacity. To  

simplify your license management, remove each license copied to a second domain and assign a  

new license to assets. 

Consider the following two cases: 

n    License keys that are no longer in use (that is, assigned to assets) in the original domain post  

     repointing. 

n    License keys that are in use (that is, assigned to assets) in multiple domains. 

License Keys Not in Use in a Domain 

If after completing repointing, a license key appears in more than one domain, but is not in use  

in some of those domains, you can remove the license key from any domain in which it is not in  

use. See "Remove Licenses" in vCenter Server and Host Management for instructions on how to  

remove the licenses in vCenter Server. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                86 

----------------------- Page 87-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

License Keys in Use in Multiple Domains 

If after completing repointing, a license key is in use (that is, assigned to assets) in more than  

one domain, to remove the license key from all but one domain, first a different license key must  

be assigned to each asset in domains from which the license key will be removed. Two common  

approaches: 

n    If you have other license keys available with sufficient unused capacity, you might use these  

     other keys in place of a license key to be removed. See "Assign a License to Multiple Assets"  

     in vCenter Server and Host Management to assign licenses in vCenter Server. 

n   You might divide the license keys used in more than one domain into separate license keys,  

     one for each domain. To divide the license keys, see the VMware knowledge base article at  

     http://kb.vmware.com/kb/2006972. To determine the capacity to be included in each of the  

     license keys into which the original is divided, see "Viewing Licensing Information" in vCenter  
    Server and Host Management to view the usage of the license key in vCenter Server for each  

     of the domains. 

     Each of the resulting license keys can then be added to a different domain and assigned in  
     vCenter Server to assets previously licensed with the original license key. See "Create New  

     Licenses" in vCenter Server and Host Management to create licenses and "Assign a License  
     to Multiple Assets" in vCenter Server and Host Management to assign a license to multiple  

     assets. 

     After different licenses are assigned to all assets, the original license key, which is no longer  

     valid, can be removed from all the domains using vCenter Server. See "Remove Licenses"  

    vCenter Server and Host Management . 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                 87 

----------------------- Page 88-----------------------

Troubleshooting vCenter Server  
Installation or Deployment                                                                        6 

The vCenter Server deployment troubleshooting topics provide solutions to problems that you  

might encounter during the vCenter Server appliance deployment process. 

Read the following topics next: 

n   Collecting Logs for Troubleshooting a vCenter Server Installation or Upgrade 

Collecting Logs for Troubleshooting a vCenter Server  
Installation or Upgrade 

You can collect installation or upgrade log files for vCenter Server. If an installation or upgrade  

fails, checking the log files can help you identify the source of the failure. 

You can also collect deployment log files for vCenter Server. 

What to read next 

n   Retrieve Installation Logs Manually 

    You can retrieve the installation log files manually for examination. 

n   Collect Deployment Log Files for the vCenter Server Appliance 

    If the vCenter Server appliance deployment fails, you can retrieve the log files and examine  

    them for the reason of the failure. 

n   Export a vCenter Server Support Bundle for Troubleshooting 

    You can export the support bundle of the vCenter Server instance in the appliance for  

    troubleshooting using the URL displayed on the DCUI home screen. 

Retrieve Installation Logs Manually 

You can retrieve the installation log files manually for examination. 

Procedure 

1   Navigate to the installation log file locations. 

    n   %PROGRAMDATA%\VMware\vCenterServer\logs directory, usually  

        C:\ProgramData\VMware\vCenterServer\logs 

    n   %TEMP% directory, usually C:\Users\username\AppData\Local\Temp 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                     88 

----------------------- Page 89-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

    The files in the %TEMP% directory include vc-install.txt, vminst.log, pkgmgr.log,  

    pkgmgr-comp-msi.log, and vim-vcs-msi.log. 

2   Open the installation log files in a text editor for examination. 

Collect Deployment Log Files for the vCenter Server Appliance 

If the vCenter Server appliance deployment fails, you can retrieve the log files and examine them  

for the reason of the failure. 

The full path to the log files is displayed in the vCenter Server appliance deployment wizard. 

In case of firstboot failure, you can download the support bundle on a Windows host machine  

and examine the log files to determine which firstboot script failed. See Export a vCenter Server  

Support Bundle for Troubleshooting. 

Procedure 

1   On the Windows machine that you use for deploying the vCenter Server appliance, navigate  

    to the log files folder. 

    You must have administrator privilege to access the log files and the log files are available at: 

    n    Windows: C:\Users\{user name}\AppData\Local\Temp\vcsaUiInstaller 

    n    Linux: /tmp/vcsaUiInstaller 

    n    Mac : /var/folders/**/**/**/vcsaUiInstaller 

2   Open the installation log files in a text editor for examination. 

Export a vCenter Server Support Bundle for Troubleshooting 

You can export the support bundle of the vCenter Server instance in the appliance for  

troubleshooting using the URL displayed on the DCUI home screen. 

You can also collect the support bundle from the vCenter Server appliance Bash shell by running  

the vc-support.sh script. 

The support bundle is exported in  .tgz format. 

Procedure 

1   Log in to the Windows host machine on which you want to download the bundle. 

2   Open a Web browser and enter the URL to the support bundle displayed in the DCUI. 

    https://appliance-fully-qualified-domain-name:443/appliance/support-bundle 

3   Enter the user name and password of the root user. 

4   Click Enter. 

    The support bundle is downloaded as  .tgz file on your Windows machine. 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                            89 

----------------------- Page 90-----------------------

vCenter Server Installation and Setup 

 5   (Optional) To determine which firstboot script failed, examine the firstbootStatus.json  

     file. 

     If you ran the vc-support.sh script in the vCenter Server appliance Bash shell, to examine  

     the firstbootStatus.json file, run 

       cat /var/log/firstboot/firstbootStatus.json 

VMware by Broadcom                                                                                                                90 
